Today is for any young Indian boy or
girl under the age of 25 wants to start
a consumer electronic
brand start. Okay.
Ready? All
right. Hi guys. Thank you for coming
home and doing
this. I think Khal had to travel from
farther further away. Mhm. Amit and
Rahul live closer in Delhi. So maybe we
start
by speaking about ourselves,
giving my audience an intro of who we
are, how we got to be where we are.
Rahul is already a friend of mine, so I
know a lot about him. But maybe we start
with KL. Sure. Um, happy to be here. It
took a while for us to schedule it back
and forth, but um, we're finally here.
Um, so I'm Carl. Um, I'm one of the
co-founders of a company called Nothing.
Uh, but ever since I can remember, I was
always a tech fan. Um, I grew up in
Stockholm in Sweden. I remember my
parents got me the first iPod and I was
only like 12 at the time and the first
generation iPod was very complicated
because I don't know if you guys
remember, it had the FireWire
connection, right? I had a PC. Yeah. It
didn't have the FireWire uh connection.
So, I had to buy a first I got the iPod.
I didn't know you couldn't connect it to
the right to the PC. Then I had to buy a
PCI card for FireWire, install that to
even be able to connect the iPod. And
back then there was no iTunes, so it was
a real player to to manage the music.
But anyway, that product got me really
hooked on technology cuz the scroll
wheel was really cool. and uh managing
the music library, you know, fixing all
the ID3 tags for each song, uh getting
the album arts perfect
and uh a couple years later I was
probably so I think I was the first to
get the iPod in my entire school. Um so
so I was a a cool kid among the nerds in
the beginning. Where was school car?
That was in Stockholm. Stock. What year
are we talking about? iPod. When was
iPod? uh 2001. Yeah, you're 36 today,
right? 35. Turning 36. So when I was 12,
I got the iPod. Really excited about
that product. Um then I got the first
iPhone through a friend in the US
because the iPhone was only uh exclusive
with AT&amp;T. Mhm. Um, so I had a friend
buy it for me and then we had to pay a
$450 cancellation fee on the contract,
then got it shipped and then jailbroke
it and installed my own SIM card. So I
was the first among all my friends to
get the iPhone. But I think those two
products were super formative for me. I
guess the third thing that happened was
um then I got the iPad. I forgot which
year, but the first year the iPad came
out. And I don't know if you guys
remember, it used to have a skeuorphic
UI. So, basically the UI tried to mimic
how things looked like in real life. And
when you swipe swipe from the uh bottom,
there was a control panel and it was
like metallic. So, you had like a volume
knob that was brushed metal, but when
you tilted the iPad, the the light
source of the the graphic also changed.
So, I'm like, "Oh my god." Like if Apple
thinks about every little detail like
this, I can trust them on like they've
figured everything out. So those three
moments made me a big fan of this
industry and of Apple. Do you still that
feel that way about Apple? No, it's a
very different company now. When did it
change? I think the change has been
gradual. I think um uh the two CEOs have
had a very different approach to running
the the company.
Um, I mean the stock price doesn't lie.
I think Tim Cook has done a great job on
the on the shareh shareholder value
creation side, but when it just comes to
inspiring a young guy or a young person
to take a career in tech, I think the
old Apple was way better at that. Um, so
really inspired by those products and
then I was chronically online as a kid.
My parents were busy. They were always
at work. But I got um a laptop computer
and I got fiber internet at a very young
age because the infrastructure was
pretty well developed in Sweden. Um at
12 you had
and phone access to phone and I had a
Nokia 3210 at 12 at 12 years old. Yeah.
So then fast forward to later. So I had
the internet, started making friends
online cuz I felt like um the friends
around me, they only saw a very small
part of the world. Whereas online you
can connect with uh uh anybody. So I
made a very good friend. Uh we were
chatting on MSN Messenger every single
day about how to make money online. We
were both writing blogs and uh making
websites and all that stuff. And then um
he then became the youngest founder to
get into Y Combinator and he's like two
years younger than me. So I'm Wow. I was
very jealous when he got in. He was
probably 17 or something. And so that
was also my plan. So after uni I'm going
to apply for Y Combinator. So it was a
different time when consumer internet
was still very like booming with
Facebook and all that. What's really
working for Y Combinator? We're trying
to start something like that called WTF
fund which is a
nondilutive grant program where we don't
take equity. So not not too much like Y
combinator but a different version of
it. Why have they been so successful?
I don't know. I haven't thought about
it. When I was young I just wanted to go
there because I thought that was the
place you had to go if you wanted to
become a Silicon Valley founder.
um they made a lot of they've been a
kingmaker in the industry. I think I'm
sure they have some unique way of uh
figuring out who's a good fit in terms
of founders and then they have their
brand and then they uh prepare the
founders for like uh the the the
subsequent funding rounds in a pretty
smart way. Like even when I'm raising
money sometimes I reference the Y
cominator
uh docs like the guides for how to raise
money. So you think it's network or
access to capital? The capital is very
little actually, right? Half a million.
Yeah, it was even less before and they
take a lot of stake for that money. Um,
but I think it's a branding thing like
once you have that brand on your
resume, your next round will be a lot
easier and your your next next round
will be a lot easier. And they do have
good content to teach maybe that's their
um user acquisition, right? having good
content to teach young people uh why you
should start a company, how you should
start a company and then once they're
ready that they inbound to YC. Okay. And
then so I was planning to go to YC and
then
uh I was playing a lot of games. Mhm. A
lot of League of Legends at that time.
Uh wasn't very games as in like video
games or Yeah, like online computer
games.
Um, so I was a bit lazy, so I didn't
write my application, but then I got a
phone call from uh the CEO of Mazu back
then. Mhm. He's like, uh, hey, we want
to become more international. Uh, do you
want to help? So, I had like two
options. Either I have to write my, uh,
application for YC or I can go to China
to join Mazu. Uh, I took the path of
least resistance and, uh, didn't finish
my university. I moved to Hong Kong in
uh 2011
for Mazu. For Mazu just for the minute.
Mizu was the
the the Apple of China that time. They
were the first one to come up with a
phone. Yeah. The first Chinese
smartphone. Yes. Um was Mizu they made
really great MP3 players before. Mhm.
That's when I got to know the company.
Um and then yeah to be a part of the
beginning of something interesting
that's why I moved and also out of
laziness to not have to write the thesis
for university and the application for
YC and the reason why he reached out to
me was because after I discovered their
products in 2006 I made an online fan
community about that company and it got
uh quite big. We got to like 70,000
users members. We were updating like
people on the new firmware updates and
uh customization all that stuff and then
I think he saw something in that and and
decided to call. So the founder of MSU
called you himself the CEO? Yeah, the
professional CEO.
Wow. Okay. And you were in Nokia for 3
months. Yeah, that was before that just
for like a summer internship, right? And
after Mizu? Uh so I didn't stay that
long. Um, I think I stayed like a
year. I left because I quickly realized
that it was a family business. So, the
key positions were all family members.
And it's hard to build a very big
company like that. I think was the
professional CEO a family member. He
wasn't, but imagine how hard it was for
him to to do his work. Um, but head of
finance, head of international, um, it's
probably not going to work. So, uh, I
started applying for jobs. I applied for
Xiaomi. I applied for,
uh, OPPO. I applied for another company
that's no longer here called Smartisen.
Yeah. Yeah. Um, Smartisen that had they
had that. Is it based Bangalore based
startup? Am I right? No, no, no, no, no.
This is uh based out of uh Beijing.
Yeah. Back back in the day with their
hammer UI and all that. Is it? Mhm.
Yeah. Yeah, they did some good design.
Yeah. Um, the smart design guy never
responded to me. Um, I interviewed at
Xiaomi and Oppo and uh, to be honest, I
think back then Xiaomi was a rocket ship
like a venturebacked I think Seoia and
like bunch of really well-known VCs were
backing them. DST and all those DST.
Yeah.
So, I was actually quite intimidated by
the people I met there. like everybody I
that interviewed with me at Xiaomi felt
very aggressive like resultsoriented
very smart whereas um when I interviewed
with OPPO I felt more like a traditional
manufacturing
culture so selfishly I thought that I if
I join this uh less aggressive culture I
can shine more. Did you get a job at
Xiaomi as well? Uh I dropped out of the
interview process after uh we made an
agreement with OPPO at that time. Yeah.
So then and then Opel also saw the rise
of Xiaomi because Xiaomi was selling
phones online. They were the first to do
that in the world and they could
undercut the other people because the
distribution cost was a lot lower. So
OPPO was also uh trying to find a
strategy to hedge against the rise of
Xiaomi. So, so they created a new brand
called OnePlus
um supposed to be online by leveraging
the supply chain that OPPO had built
because Xiaomi was still building their
supply chain. It didn't have those
advantages. Is OnePlus still a part of
OPPO? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So then um I had
just joined and I was like
hey I can't just join and then you start
a new company like I want to I want to
be a part of the new company but then I
was told that the new company is not for
international it's just just for for
China to fight Xiaomi in China but I
kind of made the case that it doesn't
hurt right like have if I can run
international it's all free money like
you you guys can still focus on China
and and everything else is just extra on
top of that. So that's how I in the
beginning got the opportunity. I was
only 24 uh to run international. Were
you more a marketing person at this
point or were you more the technical
person at this point? I was more uh
marketing. I think I was kind of like a
cuz ever since I was 12 and I got that
computer, I started making websites and
then I built traffic, sold advertising.
So like just had a deep desire to make
money when I was young. So more like
business/marketing just trying to make
it work, hustling. Um, so that's kind of
what we did. After one year after
launching the product at OnePlus, China
did $100 million in revenue.
International did 200 million. China
lost money. International made money and
then we decided to pivot the entire
company to be more focused on
international. International because the
competition in China was too high. Yeah.
So that that was the OnePlus uh journey.
Spent seven years at
OnePlus.
Um very grateful because I was just a
kid like being able to participate in
such a high capex industry without
needing to use my own money. I didn't
have money. Um so very grateful for all
those opportunities allowing me to fail
with a lot of crazy ideas and learning
from those
uh ultimately. So it's kind of like a
CPG strategy where we buy components
from different suppliers. We package the
components and we have a unique position
in the market, design, brand and sell
the product. I had done that for seven
years. I didn't feel like that's what I
wanted to do my entire life.
Um, I want to not only implement other
people's technology, I also want the
opportunity to
uh eventually impact how people use
technology. So, I knew I had to go
independent. Um, so I left in 2020 in
September and uh on my birthday. That
was like a birthday uh gift for myself
and uh started this new company um
called Nothing. It's been four and a
half years. Uh we underestimated the the
difficulty in building this, but we're
still around. So we're grateful to still
have opportunities to to build a
company.
Um but it was a bit tougher than we
expected.
And one branding your phone by keeping
it there. Yeah. Some free exposure.
It has a very distinctive back, right?
Yeah. So that's our entire thing.
We it's a very uh mature industry and
it's very hard to compete because
everybody is at very high scale so they
have a lot of
advantages. Um we're not reinventing the
category. It was invented a long time
ago by somebody else. So for us it's all
about carving out a small position in
the market first. We don't have we don't
have to have everybody love us. Uh it's
okay if 90% of people don't care about
us or hate us as long as we get a niche
group of consumers to really love us. Um
that works in our industry because it's
so big. Maybe it doesn't work for
smaller categories. So for us, we chose
to differentiate through design because
it was the fastest way to differentiate.
If we picked, you know, technology, it
would take years to play out. A lot of
investment, a lot of years.
Um, we also didn't want to reinvent the
product category. Like if we have crazy
ideas on a new gadget, might spend years
on on trying to build it and then if we
launch it, you only have one chance. If
people don't like it, you're you're
screwed. Yeah. So, we start with
hardware design, then we move to
software design. Uh, now we're investing
more and more into the OS itself, into
AI. Uh so I think for us it's about
building uh differentiation and modes
over time but in a gradual way. Don't
move too fast because then you might
kind of fall off the horse. So for a
company headquartered in Sweden uh UK
UK the trade war will affect you how
tariffs. So now the most direct way is
uh Trump had new tariffs for
manufacturing from China. So we
manufacture the earbuds in China and uh
that's like a 20% hit on our uh import
business plans for the US market. So now
we need to look at alternative uh
sources of manufacturing like India,
like Vietnam where it makes the most
sense. Yeah, this is this is the first
time you know every night 1000 p.m. I go
on CNN.com see he must have woken up
what is the new news and then go to
sleep. Yeah, but it won't affect you as
much if you're getting stuff from China
and selling in India, right? No, it's
not about it's not about that getting
from see because the supply chain right
now is is there in China and then all
the manufacturing now is coming to
India. Mhm. But it's not about China.
It's about India also
because reciproc you know reciprocal
tariffs and all those sort of things are
but I would assume it would hurt you
most if you're selling something in the
US. Certainly. Yes. But it's you now
we're talking about the whole industry
you know per se. So uh you know it's
it's if you see the reciprocal tar even
on mobile phones for
it's you know in u it's 16 and a half%.
Right. So if anything coming into India
is there is a duty of 16 and a half
going to US as of now is 0%. So
reciprocal means at some level doesn't
it sound fair like I'm just I have no
affinity to America and I'm the biggest
proponent of India built for India
supporting Indian
product
but if tomorrow I was selling to country
XYZ and I was selling them something and
they were charging me 30% duty on it.
Mhm.
If I was buying something from
them, I would assume the same duty
should apply. Yeah, I think so. Like
inherently it's logical. No. No. Yeah.
But I have a different view here. See,
it's it's not binary. It's not zero. It
depends how do you want to bring up your
country? What are your policies? For
example, we've been discussing about
China a lot. In China, way back, they
decided that they're not going to allow
the foreign companies. Foreign companies
can only come with JVS because they want
to build their champions.
But then how can they do that but sell
to other countries at the scale that
they are selling and creating these
deficits. No, but they created that
scale. Yeah. Right.
So see if you see examples how great
countries are built. We talk it's it's
all about the companies that you know if
you have great companies the country
will you know prosper and same you know
the United States is the biggest example
same thing you know China worked on that
way back and uh so if MercedesBenz have
to you know they have they want to sell
in there they said do a joint venture
with our company everyone Hyundai or all
of them in automobile softwares never
allowed Google, Microsoft, you know, all
those players they build their own
companies and they we we you know we all
know about
that. So if it was like what we
discussing that yes sitting across the
table okay if you do this I do this then
all this then Google would have been
there probably or Amazon would have been
there. I don't think so whether they
will be having an Alibaba or not or
whether there was this BU uh you know
all those players would have been
existing or not but I I'm making the
presumption that classical economic
theory suggests that free markets are
the fastest
way to improve quality and get
competitive like I do see your point. I
remember reading somewhere in history
that back in the day when UK was not
doing well, they shut off from the
world, isolated their domestic industry
pre-industrial revolution and they
didn't allow foreign products for a
while to help their internal industry to
grow to a point where it can be
competitive. So maybe there's a point to
that. But when I look at it very
simplistically, if Nikil is selling
something and Rahul is something selling
something, if each time Rahul is selling
something, there is a certain additional
tax outside of the cost of growth
produced in Rahul's margin. The same
should apply to Nikil as well.
Certainly. So as I said, likewise it it
sounds very it's simple historical.
Yeah. But uh you know when you're
building your countries you know the
whole narrative changes in that and
that's that's how all these FDA treaties
have been worked out. Yeah. Yeah. But
they have supported their ecosystem also
in a big way. If you look at all Chinese
companies I mean all like u you're
talking about internet companies they
never allowed uh US companies to come
and in fact there is no Uber also there.
Amazon also had to sell out the business
there. I mean somehow they protected for
the Indian their Chinese companies to
grow actually. That's how I mean that's
how the whole strategy you know has been
worked out. So today we talk about
semiconductors here. They started
working on semiconductors 20 years back.
Yeah. And now the results are coming.
They're like 3,200 companies working on
semiconductors. Most patents have been
filed there. So um
KL can I ask you another question? Mhm.
For a kid who moved from China to the US
with two PhD parents and a deep desire
to make money are young. Where does that
come from? I'm sure there's some uh
childhood trauma. Uh but I've never
explored that path to understand more.
What do you suspect it could be? I think
just being uh not fitting in. The
feeling of not fitting in, you know,
like But you're a young good-looking
guy. Why not fitting in? cuz I grew up
in uh white societies as a minority
racist back then. Uh I think it's not
like explicitly racist,
but it's
like you're you're just not the same,
right? Like I could tell. I think
there's something to do with that. US
more so or Sweden?
I think uh both. Is that
all childhood? I think childhood trauma
is a is a big part of it, but I haven't
uh gone to a therapist to unpack all of
that. There's also
um I think a fear of death, you know. Uh
I remember when I was very young, I even
uh I was like very angry at my parents
for giving birth to me cuz now I have to
die and that's like terrible. Why did
you why did you do this? This is at what
age? Eight, I think. So there's like a
this fear and my my my best answer is
like this is going to be a journey. Life
is a journey. Um I I uh I got the
conclusion from the movie Life of Pie.
Mhm. The the kid is on a boat, meets a
lot of animals, but actually it didn't
didn't happen. Just made it up to make
the journey more pleasant. Mhm. Um so
it's all about the journey. And I think
by doing something ambitious, doing
something different, the journey will be
a lot more fun. Mhm. So that's also a a
driver I think. Do you feel like nothing
has meaning? Are you nihilistic stoic in
your thinking? Uh I think the journey
has meaning but
uh I don't think there's much beyond
death. Well thank you Rahul. Would you
like to go
next? Tell us about your life. Start
from the beginning from Delhi. You know
I know but they don't know.
So uh yeah, grew up in Delhi.
Uh born in a middle-ass family. Father
was a school teacher. Uh mother was a
housewife, youngest kid in the family.
Um growing up
uh just wanted to do something. Nobody
was doing business in my family because
you know all but I I don't know how I
picked up that but that I will always do
something of my own. This was probably
when I
was maybe if I remember around 10 years
or 12 years I just wanted to do
something of my own and I was pretty
clear that I will not work for anybody
else
despite knowing that there is no
capital. So why? No. As a as in as a
school teacher, how much capital do you
really have? No. Why will you not work
for anyone else?
Because I just thought
that I want to do something different in
life in terms of
something meaningful. I am not saying
impact because at that time I don't you
know it was not about impact. It was
about survival and and lose. You've said
this to me in person like personally at
different points. Even when I've sat
with you and had the fund raise dilution
conversation, you've always said we
won't raise
X because control will go away or we'll
have somebody else we're answerable to.
Why did you never want to work for
anyone else? And why do you never want
to give up control or your position in
that ecosystem? Yeah. So I think we'll
be break up in these two parts.
first not work for him because I wanted
as I said to do something something
different something big something
something
meaningful and
I coffee yes I remember this
conversation with my friends at that
time and we used to go and play in parks
that I will do something of my own and
uh they will ask also asked the same
question but uh I think there was a deep
desire in terms
of wanted
to wanted to be known for something.
Why
problem? No. But so why? Maybe because
you know when I was growing
up
saw, you know,
the how people were and
how things were going on and in terms of
whatever access. So because you know we
were having very limited access to
things. So you're 50 now. Your formative
years were
'90s when India was opening up. Yeah.
you know end of uh yeah let's say you
can say when I started working it was
2000 yeah right what did you see then
which made you want to do these things
so first you know when I just told my
dad that okay he said what do you want
to do I said I just want to do something
of my own he said what I said I have no
idea but buy me a computer because all
my friends whether they were doing civil
or mechanical or electronics everybody
was going in software so I said I want
to do something in software. Mhm.
And uh bought that
computer and I clearly remember when I
bought that computer, I had no idea
about computers that time. Windows came
and you know Windows are there that. So
I went to the guy who was selling the
computer. He said what computer do you
want? I said it should have lot of icons
on the screen.
Used to have shortcuts actually. I never
knew about that. I said it should have a
lot of icons on the screen and that's
how so he laughed at me
he gave me and then I bought a
book learn VB in 21 days visual basic
visual basic yeah I wrote program in 3
days hello world this that I thought
okay I know programming now my friend
came he saw the book he
you've done this. I said, "Yeah, I made
a program." He said, "Can I take this?"
I said, "Yeah, take it." He took that
book away. The guy later became my
partner. So I the story and he's a core
techy guy coding only. So I tell him you
become a coder because of me.
So by virtue of that buying that
computer that decision we started
working on so I started looking for
opportunities in software that what can
I do in software? 2000 was like the
software bust time. Yeah. Yeah. The.com.
So this is like 99 or so. Uh you started
Micromax in 2000. No, 90 actually 1998.
1998 with the three friends. Four
friends. Four friends. Four friends.
Started with three. Fourth came from US
and then joined. Yeah. M then started
you know working on soft worked on a lot
of SAP that that went down then started
working on e-commerce that Y2K problems
and all. So at that time I was in US I
so I was a BD guy doing marketing and
sales and rest of the other guys were
doing the coding and everything. So at
that time we wrote a lot of uh B2B
engines for e-commerce um and and doing
all that.
So it you know that was time when Sun
micros system was there and it was a we
are the dotin.com
and then that market went down and then
um then we realized that it is a very
fastm moving market and you have to you
know constantly change yourself very
quickly to be relevant. Mhm. We moved on
to embedded technology, start working
with University of Irvine, California.
They had an R&amp;D center on embedded uh we
started working
together and at that time Nokia and
India was looking for a machine to
machine partner
M2M. HCL was their partner for their
mobile phones and they were looking for
someone for a machine to machine. They
said uh we got
introduced and they said would you like
to do something? We you know we used to
write uh device drivers doing you know
work on uh
uh lot of different architectures ARM
power PC and all that said okay started
doing
that and then um one fine
day I was just sitting with one of the
guys from Nokia Finland and he showed me
a a product I said what is this said
this is one of the product where And if
you put a SIM card in this, you can uh
connect a a telephone along with this
and uh it will replace the land line. So
I said good. So why did we make this
product? He said in Finland, you know,
because there are lot of snow and
everything. You can't lay the copper
wire the telephone. So you can put a SIM
card in this and connect a phone and
then you have a land line because this
phone is going to be fixed. Nobody's
going to take it.
Mhm. So he said, "Can you do something
with this?
said India how much would this we don't
have market for something like
this so I took that product from him I
said okay let me just play and
uh we found an opportunity and I went
back to him next day and said we would
like to power the pay phone machines
this so went
to AIL and all those guys
And uh all the GS employers said we can
power pay phones with one SIM card. At
that time pay phone for India was only
MTNL and BSNL government companies
laying down the wire. Now you mean the
STD center STD center std boots.
So they said okay how can you do that?
We said this is you know with that phone
because we were writing device drivers
and everything. We took that machine
changed the code and everything. Mhm.
put our software, attach the landline
and say you put a SIM card and you can
work. They said good and then uh it was
also a solution good solution for
corporates because corporates if they
want to have a connection straight away
you can just uh you know integrated with
the EPX systems and all. So it worked
for
them and uh from a small Delhi based
company we started growing to all the
states and started supporting all the
carriers there till that time it was
Hutch M and idea and all and started
supplying to them. The business was
started doing reasonably okay
from 3 4 cr rupees annually we started
doing around 100 cr
rupees in you know very quickly we
scaled up what year was this
I think 2003
100 cr then is like 1,000 cr now right
yes
more like more so we were happy we
thought that okay we have arrived
something is happening so that business
was doing well so one Hey, I got a call
from this Finnish guy.
I remember his name Henry. So Henry
said, "Rahul, can we meet?" I said,
"Absolutely." He said, "Why?" Said, "I
have a good news and bad news for you."
I said, "Tell me over phone." He said,
"No, come over my home." Okay. Went to
his
home said, "Which do you like to
listen?" I said, "Tell me the bad news
first." Said, "Bad news is that as U
Nokia, we have sold the whole machine to
machine business." What year was this?
2003. 2003, 2004. Back then they were
killing it, right? Nokia was the market
leader. Like number one to number 10 was
Nokia. Yeah. Then start 11, 12, 13.
Yeah. So I said, what is uh good news?
He said good news is that as Nokia, now
we are coming into car accessories
business. We want you to distribute our
car accessories.
So those car say you know they had
speakers you could put in the those uh
that that that lighter socket. Oh and
connect the wire with your Nokia phone
and then while you're driving the
speaker you know you can talk
and pretty interesting solution they had
speaker you can put in your seat and the
mic and you know the speakers will come
like this. So all those sort
of so I said no we're not interested in
the accessories business. So the
technology was there with us completely
because we developed
u so we made our own box a fixed
wireless terminal went stamped microax
on top of it and went back to we said uh
no case no more this is microax would
you like to use it it's this same
terminal but all of those guys atel and
what they used to know me from Nokia in
their phone also their my phone number
was saved as raul
Nokia So they said okay
um up in north there is a shrine Vo Dvi
they said you install it there because
it works 24 hours the pay phone the you
know the it works 24 hours he said if it
work
yeah I've been there that walk where you
yes you're climbing the hill and there
are SD boots on that path right yes
so uh we installed our machines there
first machines in Vashnoi Yes. Okay.
Because that's what it said that you
know if you install there because the
traffic is so high that it if it works
there it can take the load then it will
work anywhere. M we said okay we install
it there 20 days the revenue from
because see for for the operators it was
a killer product because their arpoo
from one sim card multiple people are
using one sim card rpoo is massive
thousands of rupees from one sim card
bas with an individual it's versus what
did they have before that nothing there
were std booths before that right mtn
powered by mtn and bsnl
to run an to you know to install an std
booth where there was no mtl bsnl line
where there was If there was a GSM
signal coming in, you can power that.
And so then they gave us a This is pre
people having cell phones, right?
Significantly pre Oh, cell phones were
there at that time. Those are they were
pretty much Yeah. Yeah. The cell phones
were there. No smartphones. All the
feature phones were there. So you're
saying the difference was it got
cheaper. A it yeah it was difficult to
get and so you have to apply to MTNL get
a license and then you know install.
Painful that time. M right and then
government in the government thing and
then you know they will come and if
there was no line imagine if there is no
if it is a village they have to lay down
the whole line it was a costly affair
and time taking and for us if there's a
signal is coming we will say what 5
minutes say we will install it so that
business started doing quite well and
then we became a de facto number one on
GSM fixed wireless terminal phones in
India and uh started operating offices
pan India um became a pan India player,
service network and everything. So we
learned a lot there applying you know
sale tax numbers and everything you know
like the whole how the business works.
This is till 2006. 200 yeah
2006 7
one fine day I got a call from a senior
guy from Italy he said oh there's a
problem in a machine can you go and
check it that by that time you know our
business grew to like 400 crores per
random so we were doing we like
did you have liquidity did you take out
money from the business no we were just
keeping the money but I still I I just
remember at that time BMW came to India
I bought a BMW 3 series and thought h
this is it in 2006. Ah so that and then
my that was the first time when my
parents realized that our son is doing
something because otherwise they used to
ask me beta what are you doing I said
yeah fixed wireless terminals and all
and yeah so coming back to the story and
so that guy called me so he so I said I
he said it's in Bengal somewhere why
don't you go and check I said I'll send
some engineer you know he's on a senior
level escalation can you go yourself I
said okay took a plane land in Kolkata
took a cab 5 hours drive near Bangladesh
border saw this all Krishna Nagar Nadia
and all just saw the problem fixed it
and in the evening coming back Mhm. to
catch a flight in the late night in
Kolkata. the mid I saw let's say a
village where there was no electricity
but there were there was an AEL
ISDPCO booth so I asked my cab driver I
said we are can you stop the car I went
inside the
booth and because I knew that if it is
an air must be using our equipment so I
said um there's no electricity in the
village how are you running this
booth he showed me a big truck battery
there he said sir we draw power from
here.
I said fine. When we were not making
phones those days, I was having a let's
say a Nokia phone. There was no signal
in my phone. I said, "There's no signal
in my phone. How's how are you drawing
the signals?" He showed me a big 20 dB
gain antenna mounted on a pole on his
terrace. Typical Indian jugard.
I got more intrigued. I said, "Fine,
there's no electricity. How do you
charge the battery?" M he said 11 km
away there is a village there is
electricity in the night when I shut
down my shutter I go there charge in the
night and then come back in the morning
I said how much money do you make said
around let's say 4,000 rupees a month
now 4,000 rupees a month in a village
there is no electricity no entertainment
no is big then I was traveling in
interiors of Bihar and I saw people
charging you know asking I think 25
rupees or 40 rupees to charge your phone
because at those days there were
different pins for different phones. I
remember yeah different for Motorola and
different for Nokia those round pins and
all before everything standardized I
said why is this said because there's no
electricity at home people come pay and
char it's very expensive right for a
charge
that time it is very yeah but see those
days mobile phones were not common like
this because it was the call was not uh
free today probably you're paying for
data you know that time the call was
expensive M I went back sat with our
guys worked a lot on on the GSM
technology said guys why don't we make
mobile phone what year was this this is
2007
so the first reaction from everyone
internally was are you crazy who's going
to fight these Nokia and and Samsungs
and Motoras in the world
and he said why do you want to do that
we are doing so well you're driving a
BMW 3 series so you know why do you want
to disturb the apple cart. M
why I said no I think uh you know the
food is being cooked in different
countries we need a flavor in India you
know it's somewhere in Finland or in
Korea but we need Indian flavor this
anyway so fought a lot internally
and then they said um fought with your
co-founders that they said okay 10,000
phones you make if it works it's fine
otherwise business is doing well. So, so
this is like casino money they gave me.
He said you go and play if it works it's
okay otherwise you play. How much money
was it? 10,000 phones. Uh even if a
phone was 2,000 rupees you multiply was
what? 20 crores. Yeah. Around that.
Yeah. I said okay. So we sat with teams
and said guys let's make a phone with
long battery life 1 month of battery
backup because of all these
experiences and
uh that's how the first microax phone
came and the tagline for the phone was
mobile kebab because the standby time
was 30
days since we worked a lot see the now
here in my you know my philosophy is
that whatever you're doing in life
nothing goes waste whatever we was you
know I'm just you know scramming my the
story here but in between we wor a lot
on SIM card we slumber and all those
guys for one two years nothing came out
of it nothing came out of all those
things but all those things we
implemented when we were making
phones so u normal phones take 7 to 8 m
you know per second as power we we
worked on embedded you know bed 2 to 3
milliamp per second and uh that's how we
created the same same form factor at
that time the the battery was 700 600
mAh H we put some 1,800 mh 2,000 mh that
time and same form factor made a phone
and then went to the distributors. Now
the real problem started from
there because all the distributors were
like all big distributors like even the
Delhi distributor of Nokia was bigger
than us. We were doing pan India
business of fixed wireless and all but
because Nokia was so successful so we
said now we make mobile phones why don't
you distribute and globally it was only
you know all those four five
international brand names there was no
local brand doing anything in the world
at that time or even if it was there
they were not like very very successful
brands so they just offered us a cup of
coffee and said okay good friends but
sorry we were not able to find a
distributor
after making the phone in 200
7 8 8 now this is 8 m and u so we went
back to after a lot of say there's no
distributor how do we so we went back to
our fixed wireless did you already make
the inventory huh did you already pay
for the yeah yeah already it was with us
and uh we went back to our distributors
of fixed wireless terminals pay phone
guys who were selling payoneses
He said now we have this would you like
to sell this? They said Sab Ragd if it
sells we will see because they were not
the mobile phone
guys
we give the phones to them 10 days the
phones were sold off.
Why? Because of the differentiator.
There was nothing like that in the
market. Battery was the differentiator.
Yes. Which you learned from traveling to
remote places.
Yes. So and the form factor was nice. It
was not bulky or so we didn't try to
change much on the form factor and all
the the repeat order start coming in
that's the signal and then everything
went crazy things blew up right I
remember seeing micromax everywhere yeah
then things became crazy and you started
marketing like mad at this point right
no so we then we then we sat and said
okay what is it that we want to do and
how we want to do because uh there could
be a lot of distraction actions. So, and
we were still learning at that stage.
It's not that we perfected, we were
still
learning. So, one day I saw my cook
using three sim cards. This is uh the
time and all the new operators got
licensed and everybody was selling new
schemes every day. Uni and all the new
guys came. So, I said why are you using
three sim cards? He said s one for local
college local calling. I said fine. He
said second sim card. He said to call my
native village. I said, "Third SIM
card." M. He said, "Incoming is free, so
I'm not throwing it away."
I went back to our guys and said, "Guys,
why don't you make a phone with a dual
SIM card?" He said, "No, two phones only
rich people can afford." I said, "That's
not the consumer truth. These are the
guys who are using two phones."
So, can we make in a single phone, you
know, simultaneously talking on the GSM
signal? So, with one single bassband, we
created the dual SIM phone that time.
And I still remember uh I showcased it
to one distributor meet and everybody
stood and clapped and they
said that was a time when we realized
that we have to
uh find the gaps in the market. It's
very interesting. You're finding your
gaps from your driver, your maid from
going to villages. Everyday life is like
you're learning that you're just
observing and then you know finding
those gaps. M do you see any gaps today?
Multiple name one top of the list.
No, I can go on and on on the but these
are all different different ideas. I
went crazy I will tell you you know in
that in terms of finding gaps. So we
said okay we want to make a so that's
how we made first phone for girls with
Soroski at that time the the phones for
girls in India was only by Dolce and
Gabbana by Motorola. Now how many people
can afford a Dolce and Gabbana in this
country? Mhm. So we made a we made a
phone uh you know with Soroski. Now
again these very interesting consumer
stories here. We launched that phone
because our team insisted no this is
Soroski it has to be expensive and
uh after a lot of I said no just make it
in in a in the reach of let's say common
people. We priced at 5,000 rupees at
that time. Is that the way in India? I
remember watching a interview of yours
when I was researching for
today when you were talking about the
form factor on your phone. You said what
was his name? Yesper. Yeah. He said that
whenever you look a product at a product
for two seconds and look away and you
have to draw it Mhm. you should have
that one distinctive design
element. That's a very different school
of thought from the more utilitarian
school of thought here. Right? Is this
what works for India and that works
for the affluent? No. See, this is a
time when there were only feature
phones. There were no smartphones,
right? So, how do you differentiate
feature phones, right? I think we're at
a stage in the industry where it's hyper
competitive. Yes. Every user need has
been Now it is all evolved like in
laptops, it's already at the ceiling.
You know, how will you you can't
reinvent, right?
This was a time when everything was
evolving. Right. Where a different
maturity stage of the industry I think.
Yes. Right. Right. Phone was was also a
dream when you came in. Nobody had
phones that time. 2008 by then a lot of
people had phones. Yeah. But the
penetration was not that high because
you know the GSM rates and everything
was quite expensive. How big did it get
in terms of numbers? From selling 10,000
phones a month uh a month. We were
selling three million phones a month.
How how big was the overall market at
that time? Total market less than 100
million in in India put together. Less
than that. So you were selling 3% of the
total market a month. No, no, no. 20 you
would have no no. So a third. No, no,
no. So our when we know we were when we
were doing uh 3 million at that time our
market share was around
25% plus. That's crazy, right?
You were sponsoring cricket, you were
sponsoring everything back then, right?
Yes. So, our big bet was on cricket and
music because that's what the youth was
into. And uh you said
a blanket on, you know, whatever is uh
Yeah. So, and that worked also. And this
stayed for a while. Yeah. For a couple
of years. This crazy growth trajectory.
Yes. Interestingly, we come back to our
tariff questions. the tariff
conversation we were having earlier
because that kind of was the problem
right the Chinese competition which came
into India post. Yes. So, so that was a
time and again yeah I will answer a
couple of other questions which you were
asking about you know why you wanted to
and all. So there were a lot of
learnings also in between. Uh so for
example you know when Mizu was raising
the round with Alibaba we were deep down
with Alibaba that time. Yeah. Raising
the round and uh so our paths have been
uh intertwined. Yes. And a pretty big
one. At that time we were raising what
around $800 million around at that time.
This is in 201 14 and uh secondary most
of it. Wow.
So uh it was uh because the business was
throwing so much of cash right. Yeah. So
we said we don't need money but uh you
know at that time everybody wanted to
connect it. You know I remember you
could buy a few more BMWs.
Few more than few more.
So this was going well and then we
realized that uh so we didn't take that
money. We said okay no we are doing
quite well and we were we said we
already have so much of
bad decision in hindsight. So we we
thought that you know if we have taken
care of uh the Finnish and the Koreans
and that time at that time that later on
because that time we never knew but in
2016 70 you know that was the time when
the you know the Chinese brand started
coming in so we thought you know we have
taken care of them so we can you know
we'll take care of this also. it's okay
let's we'll go head on. But you know
that was a very very different game
because you know when the when the
Chinese came they came up with so much
of gunpowder and you never know that
where this gunpowder is coming from and
whether there is an end to it or not.
Do you think the government subsidized
them to come in that manner? So their
government Yes. So there as I said you
never know because you know there were
so many schemes uh which were running
there and not only the central level
scheme but also the state level scheme
the companies were funded by the states
also. M
so we said okay we'll we'll we'll see
and then we started fighting it was a
prize you know prize battle started
going on you know when the Xiaomi's of
the world started coming in and then the
so before that we were fighting let's
say with the Samsung's and the Motos or
the Sony Rexons of the world or
um doing pretty well and then you
started suddenly you start having a
competition wherein if you're selling
let's say At 100 rupees somebody comes
and say hey I'm 90 rupees. Mhm. And if
you say 80 they'll say 70. They'll say
70. So that's how it's so it's race to
the bottom and then certainly there they
were burning a lot of money. But can I
ask a structural question? Yes. While it
seems like a race to the
bottom because of the scale of
manufacturing they have. Yes. Is the
cost of production in China inherently
so much lower that at 80 rupees you
can't make money but at 70 rupees they
can. So that's uh yeah that's true
because it's it's the whole supply chain
which is you know which is established
there. So uh probably what we were
discussing that if their bomb is 100
your bomb is 120 but you would also be
importing that type of manufacturing.
No. So uh see we established our first
plant in India in 2010. So you started
earlier way before making India started.
So man but the components was coming
from there right and at that time all
these brands what we see right now they
were not there. So they they started
coming and for example all the brands
were there in DVD players or MP3 players
and then they started coming out of that
and then the prize war started and uh so
and we also went into
it but somehow with the whole supply
chain and everything you then slowly you
start you know access to all the things
started getting
restricted. So for example why Micromax
became successful because in this in the
industry where we are in you already you
know you're looking for a
differentiation for example if I was
designing a phone my question to myself
was that why will I buy or somebody will
buy this phone what is different in this
phone why why somebody will not buy
another phone so I I I you know that's
how the differentiators were coming in
and differentiator was not only on on
the feature but also on who's going to
come up with the latest chipset first
who's going to come up if there is a 50
megapixel camera who's the first guy
coming with the 50 megapixel camera.
Mhm. If there was a fast charging
coming, who's the first guy to come up
with fast charging? And the distributors
used to look at, you know, look look at
us that okay, they will come up with
something new every quarter. Right.
So when that access started getting
stopped when you government stopped the
no no it's not the government you know
because the scale shifted somewhere else
right and they preferred supplying to
their own companies than do you right
and
uh so the num and the numbers and
everything because their numbers started
growing up in because China itself
became a very big market and the scale
was you know became big because you know
there are a lot of theories about about
micromax in the market that this
happened that happen. Everybody can come
up with their own. Yeah. What is the
theory the most popular? No, I keep on
hearing different one. Oh, they went you
know into luxury segment or they there
was no R&amp;D you know all this but I don't
know how many people know we when Nokia
got sold we had the you know we took all
the top Nokia they had the gold you know
division we got all gold guys from Nokia
and doing the R&amp;D at that time but
whatever this was happening all this you
know coming from China it was a global
phenomena so it was not only that we
were affected all the other let's say
there were other brands in in Turkey or
in um in in Malaysia, other places, you
know, everybody got affected. And I
think in
2019 odd or so, we realized that um you
know, you can you can burn money, but
you you know, you can burn money till
the point you know that I'm going to win
the game, right? But if the other person
is having an unlimited supply, it's like
a bottomless pit. A bit like today no
all the loss making startups in India
all competing downwards. Yeah.
And see
and we built microax as say from day one
making money and doing that you know
never raised any capital slowly slowly
you know build it and u and whatever you
know we said no to $800 million in 2014.
So if you ask me in hindsight that you
should have taken it. Yeah, because see
that time we never knew that you had to
create a war chest. Yeah.
You create a war chest and say okay now
let you know the biggest bull run in
Indian equity markets. Imagine you put
that in equity 2014 to today. Yeah. So
you know with $800 million you sit on
the casino table and you say okay now
play. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. So and then after
Yeah. And in 2009 then we realized that
you know either we'll you know if you
keep on burning with this space we will
get finished we'll get completely burned
out we will not have any capital left.
So we said okay let's stop burning money
and uh wait for your turn and start
focusing on on manufacturing. And that's
how we started building more factories
uh in
1920 21 and
now and uh that's how we you know
pivoted on the on the manufacturing game
and the whole idea is that unless and
until you have access to supply chain
for example if today I have to make u a
triple screen fold
I don't have access to the screen so how
do you come up with the latest when you
say access to supply chain yes you're
talking about the company in China that
gives that makes the screen okay that
makes a display but the other bigger
company there for example let's say
Huawei has a triple screen Huawei has
already blocked that he said okay for
one year you can't give to anybody else
because I am promising you this much of
volume so so what how it happens is all
partners like supply chain partners
create battery or processor they work
with bigger brands and everybody has a
alpha customer on their
Let's say Huawei would be the alpha
customer on the list. So every first
technology would go to Huawei. He will
block their capacity and when it is over
it will come to us. New technology means
all resources they will depute to Huawei
and then it will come to the market and
Huawei will take the first leg of new
product which is launching which goes
for chipsets, screens, sensor across.
But we'll never be able to make that on
our own. For anybody wanting to start a
consumer electronic company, you can't
make that triplefold screen that this
supply chain vendor is making for your
boy. No, if you're like a startup
startup, it is too hard to make like it
it requires a lot of money and probably
he might be making it. It's a it's at a
later stage at a later stage. So if you
look at Apple strategy now, they feel
like they're bleeding too much margin to
their suppliers. They're doing vertical
integration. So they're developing their
own technology, their own screen, their
own whatever process. I thought there's
outsourcing more to Foxcon and there for
for manufacturing. It's only for EMS.
What is EMS? Assembling. You would just
for assembling. Really? Yes. So Apple
used to be a consumer focused company,
right? So in the start they were very
small. They were competing against IBM
and like big PC companies. So they
targeted a niche consumer, the creative
consumer. And they positioned the
personal computer as a bicycle for the
mind. Right? So if you have an idea, you
can use your Apple computer to manifest
that idea. In the 90s, they started
acquiring software companies to then
create their own suite of content
creation tools like iMovie, GarageBand.
It's all to cater to the creator, right?
Beautiful industrial design, great
software that helps you take your ideas
into reality. So after some time, they
really captured the creatives like they
have a they had a partnership with
Adobe. Yeah, they'll be worked better on
Apple computers. So once they got the
creatives, the brand became really cool.
So normal people, they also wanted to
feel creative. So therefore, I buy
apples because I'm a I'm a
creative. But then so they won the
consumer battle and then to keep growing
the the share price, they needed to take
the value back from their suppliers
because they had outsourced a lot of the
components. So in the recent 10 years,
it's been a vertical integration
strategy. Now they do their own
processors. Actually what we talked
about before they get the TSMC latest uh
there you need allocation. Yeah they get
they get the first batch before
everybody else. They get the latest
technology from TSMC for Apple silicon.
Now they're doing a mini is it mini LED
or microLED? They have their own display
technology. It's deployed on the Apple
Watch already coming mini the mini LED.
Mini LED. So it's very hard for anyone
to compete right. It's a very tough
industry and everybody who is an
incumbent today has been around for 30
40 50 100 years. Uh Apple is like 50 I
think 50ish. Samsung is older. Yeah. But
Samsung smartphone business should be
similar maybe 25 years. The Chinese
brand maybe 15 years. So every 10 years
the the cards will will flip. Yeah. So I
think this is a very interesting thing
um is you're talking about competing or
nobody can come up we came up at that
time defying the odds you know globally
there was uh
you know no brand like a local brand who
came like and became a like we were top
10 in the world and that's how it was
going
I still feel that can happen right but
we never realized that governments have
to you know have a to play a role in it
Because that time we never thought about
the governments and the countries and
all. Now we realize about countries,
governments and everything. What should
the government do? Yeah. So for example,
you take our automobile industry in
India. I think we have done a great job
there. All the Hondas and Suzukis came
initially did joint ventures with the
Indian
companies created a lot of ecosystem of
uh supply chain. You see all the
component players. Yeah. Right. And uh
now if you see our automobile industry,
we are supplying to the world now. We
are a very mature industry in
automobile. And if the same thing were
true for mobile phones, what happened to
Micromax would not have happened. Maybe
you know the the world order would have
been different in terms of the brands,
right? Yeah. So any industry you need to
see that you want to make local
champions. So for example today in the
worldly order imagine if there are two
three local champions coming out of
India who can make a global impact I
think it would be great for the country
but if we there's a flip side to that
argument that if we become protectionist
of local
industry do we continue to get foreign
money into the country so I'm not saying
that you stop I'm saying you do you
allow collaborations
collaborations where you need to learn
For example, collaborations with
technology trans IP transfer. Yes. Work
on IP transfer and then you learn. So in
four five years you will learn.
Right. See I said to happen you know at
that time. Now today you have all the
local companies ruling the roost.
Similarly you learn here 5 years 6
years. So a lot of people ask me okay
can you do this? Can you make a you know
a very complex phone? We said yes we can
make a very complex phone but maybe it
will take 5 years 6 years in India to do
that. But with collaboration we I can
start learning right away and then can
do it you know very very quickly. And
how much did this 3 million phones a
number fall to when things went bad at
micromax? No no no it totally started
coming every year it started coming up
we start losing at that time all the
Indian brands were more than 50% of the
Indian market market share right which
completely got decimated right what was
the low for Microax as a company which
year was the low I think that time in
201 19
2020 we you know in terms of the brand
we said okay before yeah we said okay no
more then co could not have been fun no
more right yeah M when you go from a
peak to a low, what is the one lesson
that we can learn from your experience
that you have learned already? Today our
manufacturing is bigger than you know
the revenue is way more bigger than what
we used to do in our brand which
probably not most of the people will
know but we are doing way more better
than what we used to do earlier. No, I
know the microax comeback. I'm coming.
So in in between you know you're trying
multiple things. I think what has worked
for us you know which we later realized
that stick to your core. What did you
realize is your core? So my core was to
remain with tech. So for example not
start a real estate company or real
estate is doing good go there or
something else is doing good go there or
something. So this thing was already
there. The whole manufacturing the
factories what we created you know for
micromax was already there. said why
don't we build on
that
and start doing for others that helped
and that's how we so at Micromax time we
were having probably one or yeah two
factories now we have four large
factories fifth coming up and then uh
you just acquired a new factory as well
and now you're
scaling do you feel like you're stronger
the second time around than you were in
the
beginning less oblivious more aware
Yeah.
Like I feel like once somebody's card
the next time they're a little bit more
differentiated in their approach. This
weekend I was thinking that believe me.
Yeah. In Goa. Yeah. uh I was thinking
about that about something I used to do
earlier and then uh I again thought I'm
still doing the same thing which is in
taking big beds going risky and all like
that you know once we started doing I
said okay no no no more no more
stick stick to your you know but uh risk
is intoxicating no it is while you're
taking it
it gives you a high
Yeah. and believe that okay no no no
this is something I think you can do you
can crack it and then you go for it and
because it has worked earlier then you
start thinking then you know every time
you know every time it's going to which
is not the case
u so yes while you know we are doing
this I'm more aware but uh but the core
is that now so once your core is that
you will you will want to take bigger
bets also
thinking you know you came out profit.
See,
so I think that's the DNA. As long as
the bets don't go wrong, they always get
bigger organically. Yeah. If you had to
bet money on some some entrepreneur
today, wouldn't you pick somebody who
has screwed up a couple of times versus
somebody who's doing it for the first
time?
Screwed up a couple of times but
eventually made it. Yeah. Yeah. That is
important. Yeah. Yeah. If you eventually
made it then Yeah. Yeah. That's fine. I
feel like this prophecy is true for all
life. I like people who are a little bit
screwed up in all domains. When I meet a
man and I don't know what his vice is, I
assume the worst. I'd rather know, okay,
this is my friend. He's up like this. I
am aware. I'm up like that. He's aware.
This friendship is good. Mhm. When
somebody comes to me and projects the
idealistic mask, then I worry. Because
we all the same at the core of it, you
know, we're all inherently flawed as
people. 100%. Yeah.
Yeah. But thank you for that.
All right, Mr. Amit, you're next. Tell
us. I think uh I'm very interested in
your story cuz both of their stories him
I know firsthand and his I've read a bit
but your story is not so much out there.
So I come from a small town Bikhane
Rajasthan and typical middle-ass family
father used to work with bank uh and
which bank state bank of Bikan and Japur
if you would have heard of SBBJ
later on they got merged with SBI and uh
grandfather was an advocate so typical
middle class and when you're in a small
town the only dream is you become a
doctor or an engineer but I think I was
not gater for that I was a very
mischievous kid uh academically not very
strong I mean 60 70% scorer that time uh
where people were I think 80 85 or I was
the eldest one in the
family no he's fit and he went to
nift there the nift ones are the cool
ones
yeah from there
sometimes oversmart
what's that fashion in college. Oh yeah,
it's like where all the cool kids go. So
anyways, studied. See, his shirt has a
very differentiated color.
So it's not white, right?
What color is it? Somewhere off white
bees. So I went uh people were uh my
parents wanted me to become a doctor and
uh actually was pushed towards that
career because in small towns I think
those were the two choice and apparently
went to Kota also for uh PMT preparation
medical test that time for crash course
but eventually realized that I think I
can't do that and fortunately what
happened that my father was very you
know bold that he would get out of
Bikanir move to a bigger city and he
moved to Kpur actually he got posted
there and when he moved there I realized
that it's just not uh this as a career
there are people who are securing 80%
85% marks and going to Delhi for BCOM so
I realized that masscom is a course uh
BCOM is a course arts people are doing
because of passion and well through well
family good educated kids then I
realized that medical I don't want to do
uh I enjoyed maths physics those kind of
subjects where I don't need to mug up
and definitely a small around kids going
to a bigger city so you get a little bit
boied away by what's happening there. Uh
I realized that then parents said do an
IT then I realized it's too late for me
to do an IT now otherwise you'll ask me
to bunk for 3 years and it's I think
it's uh 98 99 and uh eventually after
graduation started preparing for
competitive exams and formally landed
into NIFT. So I think uh NIFT Hyderabad
was a real life
uh learning for me. uh first time hostel
getting out of uh home and I was into
fashion management not design but maybe
all the peers were design guys and again
uh dad took a loan for me to go to
college so I had always limitation that
I should not be spending more and when
my friends had higher pocket money so I
think my entrepreneurship started from
there tell me things about yourself that
I can't
Google or watch in another interview of
yours cuz that's boring I don't want to
No, I I mean uh uh notorious kid
definitely and uh I mean I always had uh
hunger to do something different and in
college like I said I used to look for
alternate sources. I was again uh let's
say there was high-tech city was all
call centers if you look into it
Hyderabad that time converges and all.
So I thought of maybe doing a job at a
call center. Maybe picked some project
at converges. Not converges, maybe
Infosces was there. Went to ISB to pitch
something and maybe just started picking
up you know some projects at our college
only where you know there was a fest
happening. Could you bundle the t-shirt?
So I think my first entrepreneurship
time happened from there on where we I
started making a little bit of pocket
money from there. But I was always uh
insecure in life that I'll not get the
job otherwise I was like so you finished
college and what did you do first? Yeah.
Uh when did you finish college? So I
finished college in 2004 and I got
placed in a manufacturing setup uh
Orientcraft if you would know based out
of Gaga. So there's there's one of the
uh one of the largest export house out
of India. I thought I would not get a
better job than this. So I stayed there
and I worked for three and a half years
there. uh it was typically
merchandising and two years I did
merchandising I found it very boring and
I thought of leaving the job that time
because if you would know merchandising
is buyer say you something and then you
copy paste do it I used to work for Ant
Taylor gap all those brands and then I
started giving interviews actually
everywhere outside I went to barista can
I do job in marketing coffee day was big
there was a bad I went to air for an
interview to apply for marketing because
I was was fed up of my career that time
ironically Three people who have
proficiency in marketing are running
consumer electronic companies. we could
prerequisite which we could catch the
market uh pulse well actually
and uh maybe I didn't get a job anywhere
outside and uh I started taking on all
special projects at the company what all
the pain problems of the company I could
take that and and you work with your
brother no no no uh uh so my brother is
10 years younger to me so he came in
maybe dasal
25 16 he came in So I was uh So he's 28.
So it's we talking about 2005 to 2008.
He's 28 years old. No, he's 35. 34 35.
You're 38. No, I'm 43. You're 43. Yeah.
Yeah. 43. H. So anyways, I worked there
for 3 and a half years and then started
picking up. You look very good. Yeah.
For 43. Trying to working with young
founders. So you have to stay to that. M
anyways so I worked for 3 and a half
years they moved me to I saw a huge gap
in the international product development
I picked up that piece and and that's my
journey started I moved to Hong Kong for
the first time and I think it was 2007
era where I saw glo where I saw global
brands were there and whenever I used to
travel people used to ask me go and buy
this thing for me that thing for me cha
I used to import lot of blackberries
from there I think it was blackberry
time mhm so I used to buy and trade off
for $1,000 2,000 bucks and sell sell it
in India in my office. It was like
jailbreak phones. Yeah. So every time we
used to go buy 10 phones and bring it
here. And eventually I realized that I'm
solving a bigger problem not electronics
but textile. Let me do it myself. And I
started my first business uh in 2007
which was uh fashion accessory textile
merchandising basically buying house quy
concept and I had 60,000 bucks in my
pocket and again how could you do a
business with 60,000 bucks? So I started
it in seven based out of Hong Kong and
uh I think that's where my journey with
uh H&amp;M started. H&amp;M was my first
customer. I worked with them very
closely with the design team. So that's
how I realized key are uh there is a
there are brands which are built at
center. So India was uh I think fashion
big bazar time that time it was Microax
and Big Bazar which were at the bottom
and H&amp;M was right at the center not
cheap not luxury but selling to the to
the world unilo H&amp;M and that's how my I
think uh my roots got leveled at good
quality product at an affordable price
not the cheapest not the expensive I did
that business for seven and a half years
8 years traveling a lot and then Gorov
My cousin actually he was 21 he became
commercial pilot I think at Akon time or
king fisher or jet something tanged no
job and he asked me to get a iPhone that
time it was just launched and I said are
you mad you ask I think uh 14 what what
time iPhone what the first one
2007 or 8 8 20078 so I think no he asked
me to get the iPhone 3 sometime so I got
an iPhone 3 for him and I said are you
mad it is 255 5,000 bucks and I got a
jailbreak from a phone from Hong Kong
for him and uh I got a phone for him. He
said then I need to buy a cover for this
and there were no covers for that phone
and that's how our journey started. He
said let me get uh I have a problem can
you solve it for me. If I have a problem
my other friends would have a problem.
So we started mobile accessories that
time in which year? I think 2014 15 I
think Xiaomi came to India that time we
launched iPhone covers we flopped all
stocks are at home under the name Noise
no yeah it's under the name noise so the
company started in 2014 145 15 we
started uh doing mobile accessories as a
side job he was as a hobby doing it I
was doing my business what I was doing
and then uh iPhone we had a huge failure
because the market would be what.5% we
were the only few customers buying
iPhone and Then uh we flipped to Xiaomi.
He was doing a side project and that's
our journey kicked in. And then what
happened?
Uh we the business started becoming very
big. The phone all Chinese guys came in.
The business started becoming very big
and we sold accessories for the Chinese
phones. Yeah. We sold accessories
because see please understand I could do
we couldn't do tech. I was coming from a
fashion background. I just knew designs
and mobile cover is just an accessory. I
mean it's like a t-shirt.
It's such a simple product. You get it,
you print it. We had a small setup also
manufacturing in a factory where we used
to ship thousands of cases every day.
And then we realized that this market is
getting super commoditized. And then
when did noise blow up? I think in no no
not co I think we started picking up in
19. I'll tell you the the the trajectory
what happened in between. So we're doing
cases it was fine and we realized that
the pricings are going down. I mean we
started selling for 500 bucks and
eventually it landed to 150 and 150
whatever case you sell you can't make a
big company so we were growing but we
were subund
cr then we thought of starting doing
different categories we launched
everybody said marketplaces flip cards
of the universe uh why don't you do
headphones neckbands or whatever
categories we did that we failed there
was no differentiation there was no
differentiation and then out of interest
we realized what categories to pick. Uh
so our thesis was clear we'll not fight
the big boys like Sony was selling wired
earphones or Philips. I said why would
somebody buy us till that time we were
cheaper and you can't be cheaper till
the time you cut
cost and we were searching for
smartwatch for oursel that time in 19
something I don't remember that time and
only Fitbit was available for 20,000
grand Fitbit Blaze or something we got a
refurb watch for 10,000 we realized is
this a gap in the market and that's how
we started doing watches the market was
2 million units that time maybe 2
million in a year and which nobody was
doing watches. We started then then it
picked up in three four years and co it
picked up. So I think there was a
tipping point of uh so watch was the
tipping point. Watch was the tipping
point for us because you were able to
buy refurbished for cheaper in no no buy
we bought refurbished for oursel but
then we realized that there is a market
which exist can we uh do in a brand
where we could do a 5,000 8,000 rupees
watch which is affordable to a mid-level
consumer. Good part Goro was 25 that
time. So he had that young taste. He
never wanted to buy cheap and he never
wanted to buy the most expensive one.
And all India market was Chinese
knockoffs. So that was the desire to
build can we use something for ourself
and gift it to friends, family. And
today you are more known for earbuds.
No, no, we are not known for we are less
known for earbuds. We are dominant share
for watches. Watches is more tough
category. How much is your share now? We
would be north of 25%. for last 3 four
years. So watches are more complicated.
How big is that market?
It's close to a billion dollar market
revenue. Wow. So how how much are you
selling now? No noise in terms of
revenues. We would be watches we would
have close to 10 10 14% of the revenue
share. It's about 100 140 million close
to 100 million of and the rest of the
products in noise are audio devices. So
as in now we were very clear that we
have limited cap capital. We
bootstrapped the business. So we
couldn't go very widthwise. We never had
the Have you raised money now? We last
year we raised a strategic investment
from Bose Corporation. And now how big
is the business revenue wise? We would
be somewhere sitting
uh with 150 to 200 that kind of 100 in
watches and 50 to 20 100 in other stuff.
And we were very clear we'll uh go
deeper in the category because we never
had capital to experiment multiple ways.
Crazy, huh? Super impressive to have
been able to bootstrap to that scale,
right? I didn't know that. I thought you
guys had raised the venture earlier. No,
we didn't. I think it uh it became a
blessing for us because first we never
had to dress up a company for any
external benefit like today sometimes
investors says chase GMV second day they
say chase market share and sometimes
profit. So we were in that luxury of
taking our decisions which were right
for the business in long run. So having
less set of people having less products
go deeper in the categories where you
are in. But this is what the difference
is you know these are the real
businesses because see if you see all
older you know businesses they were all
coming from their own capital or having
access only to the banks you know and
taking the debt from the banks and doing
those things. It was not like raising an
insane amount of capital and then say
okay you go and experiment with somebody
else. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right.
So I think yeah these are the examples.
No no no crazy impressive. I like
pushing people to see how they defend
themselves. Yeah. I'm trying to figure
out how to push him. Yeah. Okay.
So what is today for? Today is for any
young Indian boy or girl under the age
of 25 wants to start a consumer
electronic brand. It could be cell
phone. It could be TV. It could be
speaker. It could be earphone. It could
be smartwatch.
We want to like plot a road map of what
they need to look at, how to identify
the opportunity, which vendor to go to,
how to test the product, and how to
finally take it to market. We'll go into
do you sell on Quickcommerce, do you
sell on Amazon, do you sell through
physical distribution. So the first
thing we thought we might do is
establish market size.
How big is the consumer electronic
market? A in the world, B in India, how
fast is it growing there and how fast is
it growing here? Should I start with
smartphones? Yeah, smartphones globally
is about 1.2 billion units every year.
In India, it's uh 120 to 140 million
annually depending on what number you
look at. Um so if you assume that the
ASP is $300, then 1.2 2 billion that's
over $300 billion just on the hardware
side. ASP's average selling price
average selling price very different in
India compared to the rest of the world
probably yeah every country is different
depending on the the market dynamics per
capita you know where is the sweet spot
if I want to start making a cell phone
today where would I price it
personally I don't think there's any
more opportunity um and I wouldn't
recommend any of my friends to go into
this business right now the market is
very very tough to compete M but you
need to understand that what exactly if
you want to make that what exactly are
you trying to solve? Are you trying to
let's say make a luxury brand or are you
going to make a mass brand basis that
you need to figure out your TAM that
what is the market I'm going to address
and basis that you can define okay this
is that you know that then you can find
the sweet spot because otherwise the
categories like if you if you see mobile
phones iPhone is
$1,000 and then you're you know the
average selling price as you said is
right to between the you know $250 to
$300 in India. So maybe let me break it
for India market perspective so that at
least viewers could understand it well
in a category like uh truly wireless for
an example. The India market would be
like 60 million units in a category like
audio devices for an example like this
this market would be like 60 million
devices which is 6 crores. Yeah. And 90%
of these and value wise uh around a
billion dollar market value. So can you
just tell me for India specifically?
How much is smartphone, how much is TV,
how much is earphone, how much is watch.
So uh like uh this uh phones who do $150
million phones, $150 million devices in
India am I right? 150 million
smartphones and then let's say still
there are like around 50 60 million
feature phones. Feature phones. So on a
broad level India has a penetration of 6
million 600 million smartphone users in
the country. That's the right ways to
look at it. 60 cr people use
smartphones. Is that right? Yeah. More
or less. More or less. But I think you
got to look at the annual like 120 140
number. Yeah. They broadly say that 72
billion is the consumer electronic
market in India. How much? 72 billion
per year. total consumer electronics
USD or US billion dollar he's talking
about in that they say cell phones smart
plus feature is 50 billion very true I
think large market would be smartphones
only Mhm. Right. Yeah. So in all the
consumer electronics in India because
you make TVs and everything else and you
make earphones and watch and all that.
Where is the opportunity for me? Say I'm
a 20-year-old kid who has managed to
raise some money from somewhere and I
want to compete in this space. Where is
the
opportunity? Tell me anything. Tell me
wired earphone. Tell me no. So uh so
first of all I think anybody who want to
enter a space first of all uh everybody
should enter to a space which is growing
and has a larger time. There is no point
to enter to a space which doesn't grow
or doesn't have a future for an example
or it's not large enough because so
you're saying first you make a box of I
mean if that segment is big and growing
then it's a point to go because if
you're a 2% player also you'll be of
sizable company. Let's say if you in a
go in a market which is 1,000 cr overall
revenue you become 5% also you would be
a 50 cr company doesn't make sense which
one is growing the fastest no so okay in
our space let me be let me take you
through top down you might understand
let's say in this case this is a 60
million odd devices we sell in a year
which is 6 crores and interestingly 90%
devices get sold below $25 which is
sub2,000 rupees you're talking about
Bluetooth earphones Bluetooth earphones
so if And that is 60% of the market
revenue. So which is what uh chances are
crude is like a this market and $25 to
$75 which is medium segment entry mid
premium that is close to 7%.
and would be 15% of the
market and then it is all $150 plus
majority Apple 1% market share and then
so are you saying it's a good market if
I want to start say I've raised $1
million should I start a year phone year
pod company so I personally think
technology works in a very different way
it's not like fashion where you just
uh create a product and sell at any
price point uh technology you need an
excess two partners we were talking
about all prop a lot of proprietary
things so I think it's a very tough
space for somebody to enter yes somebody
want to enter into sub $20 yes they can
but that's a race to bottom and 2250
which is a sweet spot like a,000 or 1500
cr markets it's it's tough and bigger
brands are sitting there and when you
say partner everybody's partner is China
no no it's not about those partners we
have partners so one is uh partners who
are giving us chipsets but then you need
to have your own app app teams you need
to have your own algorithms we were
talking about so those expertise is also
needed it's uh mainly supply chain so
there's for us we have uh US partners
Chinese partners Japanese Korean
yeah it's very international so how do I
say I have an idea to start a airport
company how do I connect with these
partners I'm a newbie I have no track
record you have not worked in this
industry I've not worked in coming from
outside. Yeah, I personally think NL
it's it's really tough until and unless
you're getting to a segment which is
fairly new and not been cracked by all
of us. I mean a niche space but see you
guys started recently right you started
I'll give you one example so I did
OnePlus so I'm relatively known in the
industry right uh in the electronics
industry and when we started this new
company nothing we wanted to make phones
nobody wanted to make phones for us they
said hey look look at the past 10 years
so many startups have come and failed
and why are you different you raise
money they also raise money you you have
experience they also have experience
we're not going to make a phone for like
go away. And then we're like, okay, uh,
we can't make a phone. Maybe we can make
earbuds first to prove ourselves, to
prove the skills of our team. We go to
the earbuds factories. And they also
tell us to go away. They're like, "Hey,
just go on Amazon. There's two 2,000
3,000 earbuds brands. Who are you? Like
what what's your differentiation? What's
your strategy? How much money have you
raised? Go away." Like even we were
shocked. like we thought we had some
reputation in the industry that uh you
know some of the factories want to work
with us but that was so what changed how
did you do it we went to the worst
factory like the factory if they didn't
take us on as a client they would go out
of business immediately in China in
China because they were on the blacklist
of a lot of other people for qualities
how did you find this factory
uh one of my co-founders I think
he yeah he knew some of the sales people
in the supply chain and and found this
factory. Um, but this was a factory that
had been put on a black blacklist
because of quality issues. But we had no
other choice. Nobody wanted to work for
us. That's where we started. That's true
for all of us. You know, we we had to
start work with factories which were not
less known people don't want to work
because bigger factories don't want to
touch you also. They are saying we are
happy making Apple bosses of the
universe and you know Marshall. But how
do I find this factory? Like you had
somebody I think you can't like they
won't they won't what if I just go to
China and look for them there's no
reason for them to engage like n these
are the large businesses for example if
you see the the size in terms of value
automobile and mobile phone will be
similar in terms of value. Yeah very
right. So if I reach out to one of you
guys, if I happen to know you and asks
that you can connect me to a factory, is
that the way to do it? If we connect
also to the factories, factories has no
motivation to work with you because
everybody work with moq certain
processes they they they find you fine
tune of working with I would need to
pitch who you are. I would go to this uh
founder of the factory. Hey um I have a
friend who wants to talk to you. this is
this person's background and
credentials. Can I make the intro or
not? So I have a recent example going on
right now. So some so right now we have
this technology of making connected
glasses, right? Cuz we feel that's the
future. That's where Pi is going to
move. We're trying to find out who are
the right brands
who can do these glasses
and establish brands in the glasses
space. Yeah. right now is just pitching
it to them that hey look like meta
glasses exactly same right exactly same
so with actually with meta along with
meta when you say along with meta what
meta is meta the operating systems for
example the whole AI is from meta so
which so for example they've done the
same partnership with uh exotica rayband
right similar
do you guys think there's an opportunity
there the form is changing and it moves
from cell phone to something else.
No, I think interestingly our industry
is evolving every decade. So like nobody
thought that Nokia could be disrupted
for an example. So any of our devices
could be disrupted and form factors are
definitely changing. Uh people are
working aggressively on glasses. Uh so
that is one form factor to look into it.
But like he said it's it's a game of
people who have for glasses. I think all
mobility is working. Entire mobile
brands in the world are working towards
that. So it is it becomes very difficult
for a young company to still compete.
Glasses you can
do. Glasses you can do. So you you got
one
one gap I think. No there is because see
look at the glasses industry last year
Meta with Luxotica and these are public
numbers. They sold 2 million glasses. 2
million. Mhm. And the number what has
been projected in in the next four years
is around 30 million. That's a kagger of
let's say more than 43 40 45% on an
annual basis. Right. And uh and since
we've been working on that so the tech
is so earlier the glasses came with only
speaker here. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Old
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Gen two there was a
camera. Yeah.
In let's say gen 3 with this whole AI
engine coming in there. Gen 4 you have a
heads-up display correct now once you
have a heads-up display then whatever
for example is going on my cell phone I
have display here on the frame no no not
on the frame it's a heads-up display
like you have your projecting onto a
wall yes no not on the
wall yeah it's a heads-up display you
can see so here I can see so today for
example if it is in let's say black you
know black and white tomorrow it will be
all colored it will evolve
And then for example if you're watching
your Instagram res you're just flicking
it just sitting and then you are not
taking out your phone because rest see
in your phone you have a display you
have speaker mic and a camera all things
are
solved then why do you need to take out
your phone do you think that'll be the
future or form cell phone will move to
glasses see nobody nobody can just
firmly say that okay this is although
for example Zuckerberg has said that
this is going to be but he said the
Oculus and all of those things were the
form as well for a long time which
didn't play out right correct so as I
see there's nothing right nothing wrong
you have to go out in the market and
test it out right but looking at the
tech right now that what exactly is it
going to solve I think I've seen the all
the new glasses coming up I seriously
feel that this will be the the form
factor to watch out for right yes and
there so if somebody knew watching is
wants to get into the industry. This is
the industry, right? I I have a
different approach. If somebody was
young and watching this and wanting to
get into consumer
electronics, I would urge them to first
become a content creator.
Bang on. Because the barrier to entry is
very low. Everybody can do it. And
that's the arbitrage opportunity. Now,
like the the millennials and the older
people, they they're going to have a
harder time to learn the latest
algorithms, latest trends. 100%. If you
do the content well, like Mr. Beast,
like now, you can do do anything. Make
chocolate, you can make a TV show on
Amazon. When you have the traffic, you
can you have leverage to to sell any
product. Then when I do the intro to the
factory, they were, "Oh, it's Mr. Beast.
Of course, it's just some random kid.
It's impossible." But I I feel there are
very niche spaces which are coming up
which none of us are solving as bigger
companies. When you look at our space,
this
product hearing aids is a decent space,
but right now it's like
150,000 1 lakh 50,000 rupees or $2,000.
There is a hearing aid. It looks ugly. I
see industry working in a space which is
over the counter hearing aids way
affordable looking better. That is one
market. And when you look at our
category variables, I see now
penetration has happened in variables.
Like as parents, we have used Rahul. Now
the problem is we have aging parents. We
need a device for them which could
monitor their health. And more
importantly, we live in urban cities. We
have kids. And you won't believe I get a
message from five people every day. Do
you have a kids watch? Because none of
us are looking at this space. That space
stands at zero. You're saying for kids
and senior monitoring. I mean, yeah. two
two spaces because see first market any
but can't a watch do that Apple watch
does it but it's 50,000 rupees will
India price point get sold with 50,000
bucks India would need a watch for a
parent maybe at 8 to 10,000 rupees not
not a 50,000 100%. So coming back to his
point of u hearing aids again anybody
watching there's the space to get to
disrupt because all the hearing aids if
you see are like I one lak rupees two
lak rupees close to three lakh rupees or
like I I you know went to buy from my
dad to a doctor it's 1.5 lakh rupees
hearing aids and I said you have a
better one he said yeah it's 2 lakh
rupees I said what is the difference
software difference on phone with this
we give you three more extra features
which you can unlock. It's very
uncompetitive the market. I said why
they said no no with these features you
know you can be you know you'll be able
to understand if the voice is coming
from behind or front all these things
now why then I went into why these
hearing aids are expensive
because back then putting something in a
small form factor was
expensive was expensive at that time but
not today I think no it's not about this
also Rahul so cost would be cheaper for
the manufacturer who is selling it brand
but it's just about only one or two
brands doing that business selling at
maybe 80% 90% gross. There's one company
I'm just forgetting they have the
majority market share the three big
brands in the world. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Hearing aids. Yeah. This one company has
bought out all others three to four big
brands in the world. Is it a big market?
It's a narrow not big but uh is there
another advice? Pick narrow markets
where the large incumbents are not going
after. Yes. If you're passionate about
it. Yeah. Passion is has to explain like
why would I be passionate about hearing
aids? That's what I mean. If you're not
passionate about a business you're
starting like businesses are tough
there's some good days and a lot of
terrible days. So if you're not really
in love with what you're doing it's hard
to persevere when it's when it gets
really difficult. But can I be
passionate about hearing aids? No. So
some people are passionate about some
people are by the way. They are trying
to solve real problem. No we are. I mean
if and if somebody's like somebody wants
to do it you know you know crack the
code go of it we so for example you're
saying you want to introduce someone and
all I mean we can introduce to them all
the chipset players you know all
whatever because nobody's there that's
available for somebody to take on and we
ready to fund them right 100%.
Think I am not interviewing you guys.
Think I'm a 20-year-old boy sitting in a
room. I've had the great opportunity of
sitting with three of you. I have a
million dollars. I want to build
something in consumer electronics. I
live in Bangalore in India. So you three
have a conversation and I will try and
learn along the way and intervene once
in a while. What else? We have already
given the carour example. You know the
glasses, hearing aids. Um okay. What
else? What not? I'll be very clear. If
if somebody's trying to go to a
commodity market, it's no go. It's race
to bottom. There is no winning there.
What is a commodity? I mean, let's say
somebody says, I want to do a earbud
which is 1,500 bucks. H no go. How will
you win? I mean, what's your right to
win when there's overcrowded market and
when large plays are there? So, I'm a
content creator. I have distribution.
Let's add that. I'll tell you content
creator also has a shelf threshold of
let's say whatever million followers
they have they could reach to 5,000
units 10,000 units not beyond that every
did somebody a content creator recently
sell a watch and they sold a lot what
was his name uh Schllo an arc layers
yeah yeah so they did it but if you look
into it uh what if the um the kid is uh
10 times or 100 times bigger than than
the tech burner. Mr. Beast has done
that. But I'm just saying tech is very
different. Tech they failed because the
product was not up to the mark. Uh they
were new in the town. See, it's not like
selling t-shirt. You can just stitch it
and sell it and there is no tech to it.
A same factory makes a 300 rupees
t-shirt and a 30,000 t-shirt also. Tech
is not like that. But if you're
outsourcing the tech, the production, if
you're going to a c-acker almost, no,
it's not like this business. uh uh so
like all of us we choose what components
to get into that will get into it. It's
a super customized business. Some of the
software layer are being customized at
our level in our teams. Some are
outsourced. Am I right car? Yes. And
then we design a product and then it
comes out. It's like a CPU. It just not
you buy from it. You choose specific
components, run software on it, develop
software. It's not that easy. That's why
companies are failing. So, uh I had the
same uh idea before trying this
business. There's a bunch of factories.
They all know how to make it. We just go
and order and then just pay them. It
shows up. Done. Um that can't be further
away from the truth. Like these
factories, sure, they have the common
models that you can buy off the shelf,
but everybody can buy those. Yeah. And
they don't have the best engineers. Like
the best engineers, they're not going to
work for a factory. They're going to
work for Apple or Samsung or like a
brand, right? So, they don't have good
engineering. So what is happening in
China and what is happening at Apple?
Explain the engineering process. We just
was discussing that we went on a break
about the camera. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Camera is a great example. Like if you
want to create um there's so many fields
within these products, right? There's a
radio antenna, there's industrial
design, there's camera, there's
software. It's like so many different
things. Everything requires a lot of
investment and time and energy to do it
well. So I think maybe taking a step
back the one piece of advice is to
really also respect whatever new thing
you're doing like okay now we're making
earbuds let's learn about how to make
earbuds how everything works well now
we're doing camera tuning let's really
learn about how that works because if we
just uh have a very simplistic view and
outsource it to other people we don't
even know what's what what the
underlying uh principles are it's it's
going to be very bad. So, just for
camera,
um, we've been struggling with camera.
This year, it got a lot
better. It's not that we're not smart
enough, but it's the camera is a very
like hardcore resource investment. The
way it works is you make the phone
recognize the scene. The scene could be
uh two people sitting here. It could be
nighttime. It could be city fruits,
fruits. The more scenes you can define,
the better your pictures will be. the
more you can define then each scene will
have its own tuning. The team will tune
it differently depending on the scene to
make it as beautiful as possible for
this specific scene. So if I have a if I
have a big team I can define a lot of
different scenes. So then there's a very
high likelihood that the phone will tune
it in a way that's nice. If I have a
small team, I can only define a few
scenes. So if I only have a few scenes,
then I'll miss a lot of the longtail
potential use cases for the camera and
customers are not going to be happy.
Yeah, I think identifying gaps and as I
said are you you know in terms of
passion you were saying so still so many
categories are there example let's take
example of Dyson right can you disrupt
bang on so if you look at India as a
market there is no Dyson it's just Dyson
which is like 40,000 bucks and there is
baj to buy no so there is a company
called shark ninja they're number one in
USA there disrupted Dyson completely by
Dyson do you mean vacuum cleaner
Yeah. Home. Home home. Yeah. You see if
you look at it, there is no young brand
in home. Look at the customer.
Our parents grew up buying Bajage. We
aspire to buy Dyson but Dyson is too
expensive. So look at that 25 to 35 age
group. What they would buy? So for
example, if I have to use an analogy, if
Dyson is the Mercedes-Benz,
we are a Toyota, a Honda or a Hyundai.
We have Marauti.
So Maruti is Baj. I mean those kind of
companies. Yeah. So you know these are
the segments. So you have to really
identify those gaps and say yes is there
a market and I think but also and if you
have a passion and all you will figure
out a way you know find out the right
people uh maybe take a stepby-step
approach like instead of starting your
own company work for somebody else.
Learn it. M
if there's so many uh mistakes you can
make in in our industry if I didn't do
it like once before the chances of
failure would have been way higher. It's
like 8 to 9 months of a cycle when
you're committed and when you're
committed you're committed with few
million dollars you can't get out.
KL you've said the easiest way to
differentiate is design in a bunch of
interviews. Mhm. Can't I look at the
same devices but reook design all al all
together and do what design? Like reook
my design philosophy altogether? Why do
earbuds have to look like this? What if
I change the form factor completely? Uh
then there's PMF risk. What is PMF risk?
Product market fit risk. So if you look
at our products, that product and this
product design is different, but
actually there's very low PMF risk
because these are products that
consumers already know how to use, what
to use it for. They already buy a lot of
them every single year. If you deviate
too much from the current product
definition, then you have to you have to
take care of the risk and then it's a
question of whether the risk versus the
re reward could potentially be worth it.
But there's no way to test it.
You can test it. You can do a mockup.
You can even use AI to generate a a
picture and then go and speak to people.
But I think besides mockup, it's all
about functionality usage. So that also
plays a bigger role. So I think we don't
want to change people behaviors the way
they are doing. Just little changes.
It's a different uh business strategy. I
think we're in the fast follower
strategy or late mover strategy.
Explain.
So we're we're coming into an industry
that already got created by other people
and we're just trying to carve out our
space within a big industry, a billion
units a year industry that was created
by other people. So then we don't take
the risk. We come into a very mature
category and then we can differentiate
through design. But if you're creating
something new like back in the day
drones were new or now electric vehicles
are new or
robotics then you don't have to
differentiate on the product because the
technology is fresh enough as a
differentiator but then you have the
execution risk on the technology and
also the PMF risk on whether consumers
will want to adopt this product or not.
Um I personally think late mover is
easier for me. um that requires a
different way of thinking, more survival
focused, more capability building, more
long-term thinking. Whereas the the the
technology approach is more like you
have one shot. If it works, it works. If
it doesn't work, you got to start over
again.
So just asking Carl on Yeah. Yeah. So
Carl on the phones for example, where do
you
think some disruption can happen?
Um, I think the disruption can happen on
the OS side. I think the hardware side
is very hard to to differentiate on
because all these suppliers that we
have, they're all very concentrated and
they're very strong and they're
investing in their product roadmap,
upgrading their batteries and processors
incrementally every year. Like we don't
we can't really differentiate and as a
supplier you want to sell to everybody,
right?
But if a phone you know the form factors
are changing now foldable phones are
coming in. Don't you think if you can
bring the the cost by innovation of the
foldable phones down it will have a mass
adoption because relatively it's uh it's
a gamechanging thing because you know
from a single screen you're going to a
bigger screen or maybe a triple screen.
That's also not up to us right cuz the
screen manufacturer is the real decision
maker for for that product. It's not us.
Al also just to adding on to it screen
manufacturer is also booked and he also
want to take advantage of it because he
knows after 3 years there's going to be
the same price as a normal screen. So he
will also not reduce the price and you
want to go with the biggest vendor
instead of a startup like us. So I think
for us our biggest opportunity to
differentiate in our next phase is uh
through the OS.
I I think the next differentiation for
all of us would be through software
only. But aren't you using one of two
softwares which are in the market and
operating your devices on that? So we so
like phones is a different universe
there Android or iOS but in our case we
work on open autos uh operating system
where we build our uh operating system
layer right and what I mean is more
softwares would come in like uh could I
fine-tune my audio based on my hearing
capabilities of my ear like Apple is
doing it now it's pure software or could
I have AI capabilities and this so that
I could interact it a lot of companies
are working on a friend kind of a
concept so it's all software what I see
is happening and same going to happen on
the
today we're based on Android but I I see
some disruption opportunities to become
the next Android like I think the
there's a couple of trends right
um the one trend
is if you look at the current uh big oss
iOS and Android they're very successful
already. Android has 3 billion plus
users. iOS has 1 billion plus users. So,
they can't really change the product
that much. If you change a product, a
lot of people are going to be confused.
They have too many users. And it's very
profitable. They're making a lot of
money on the software and the services.
I don't know the number for India, but
like in the US, Apple makes $100 per
year on each iPhone user just on non-h
hardware uh stuff. It's very high
margin. Um it's very profitable, very
big. Now the disruption moment is with
Gen AI and large language models.
Correct? If you look at the recent news
around Apple, they announced Apple
intelligence at WWDC.
And still today, almost a year later,
there's there's nothing. It's still the
same. Nothing there to use. Now they're
reshuffling their management team. And
this is like four years after Chat
GBT. It's it took a long time to to
implement this. So I think one they're
too big and too successful. Uh so then
the question is like how do you disrupt
like what is their biggest moat? I think
for at least for smartphones their
biggest moat is their developer
ecosystem. Right? If today we launch our
own OS based on Android or a fork of
fork of Android. We don't have any apps
on the phone. No app store. No apps.
Yeah. Nobody's going to buy the product.
Like I want to use my apps.
But again, if you look at AI, there's a
disruption moment for app development
because now with AI coding tools, you
just need to write what app you want and
then it shows up. In the future, you can
just speak what app you want into the
phone and that app shows up. So then
that gives a smaller company like us the
ability to compete with uh iOS which has
I don't know a million two million apps
already. But we can empower every normal
person to also be an app developer. If
you have an idea, you just speak your
idea into the product. Therefore, we can
also quickly um develop our ecosystem of
uh developers and apps. So, I think
that's the main opportunity that I see
that a younger, more nimble company can
can navigate a changing world way
quicker. And the big moment that's
enabling all of this is the advancements
in AI.
How else can AI present opportunities?
If I were to want to build something in
consumer electronics as a 25 year old,
it's kind of like um it's kind of like
the personal computer, the example of it
enables you to manifest your creativity
into reality. Um the personal computer
allowed you to go to Photoshop,
GarageBand, iMovie. Now like creating
stuff is easier than ever. Like we
talked about creating apps. Uh you can
create graphics, create advertising,
create content, create product design
code. It's really uh in one way lowering
the bar to to creativity being
manifested. I think that is one segment
which will again a a great idea you know
for all the youngsters for AI in terms
of training the models. You know we all
see that you will need these many GPUs
you know hundreds of GPUs, thousands of
GPUs to train your models and all. I
think all those things are going you
know will
change. There will be a time where you
will be able to train a largest of the
models using one single server. You will
not need a farm of servers. Mhm. Uh we
have seen a trailer in form of deepseek
already and uh I think very soon we'll
be so what you know what is it implies
that how is going to change effect. So
this means that the access to technology
Mhm. will be massified. Mhm. Right now
it is with only few people who are
working on these L&amp;Ms for example
running 405 billion tokens or now the
new model 7 780 billion tokens. Mhm.
Which only big server farms can do. But
once there is a technology wherein
within a single server you'll be able to
you know you can run your models. Mhm. I
think then all the all the youngsters
and they are way more creative. They
will be able to come up with for example
an operating system. They can just come
up with an OS and then and figure it out
maybe then find a Mr. Beast and say okay
hey I have this and then so uh but there
will be numerous opportunities coming
out of that once it's massified. One
trend that I see in the market is the
youth of today does not want to buy from
the corporations of yesterday. I feel
like things like Louis Vuitton,
Gucci are not cool today like they might
have been 10 years ago. Everybody wants
street wear, the new independent brand.
Look at how you're dressed for
example. Do you think there's a play
there? If I start a consumer electronic
company where I
will use the narrative of not a
corporation,
I think there's an opportunity but I
think you would need first need to uh
start in a different category. Yeah.
like make a fashion brand, make that
successful, then you have the
credibility to go to the consumer
electronics suppliers to get them to
want to work with you because they've
seen so many um these guys have seen so
many failures and so many pitches.
They're very pragmatic. That's an
interesting idea. So, you're saying
start a independent
design themed brand, start elsewhere,
succeed, and then transition into this.
You have to have volume like that's the
core of the consumer electronics
industry to be able to work with these
suppliers. You need to show the numbers
um that they can believe in. So look at
our case like uh we didn't come from
electronics or consumer electronic
background. So in my wildest dream I
could have never thought of uh you know
working in a space which is led by
mobility brands or other brands. So we
started with mobile accessories. It's
like it I still say it's a t-shirt
business. These are simple cases. You
just print designs and designs are a
character. And we started understanding
the user consumer pattern and knowing
and started building volumes. Our
partners saw a confidence in ask. They
are doing good volumes. We could test
something with them. So maybe our entry
also was not on day one here. We learned
consumer from a basic business.
But by the way, I have a very
fundamental question which I have
realized as a founder. What is the
segment of the market you want to chase?
Like what customer you want to I'm
asking you that question. I don't have
data lately. No, no. It's not about uh
uh what I want. It's about what you want
to build. I'll tell you for an example
the game what he's doing. He's saying
I'll not fight the cheapest in the
market like he's not doing the Xiaomi
play. But what he is doing he's in the
mid segment which is super
painful which needs time. His gestation
would be success will not be short-term.
He would have a patience of three to
four year capital to build it and then
he there are chances he might see and
might not see success. So as founders or
whosoever young people want to start
they need to be very clear what segment
they are trying to build because
different segment when you talk about
design what if I come to you with a
blank slate what segment would you
recommend I build in? No, if you ask me,
I would say don't go for the mass. Mass
is important, but have some brand
aspiration. Have your identity. Have
your brand uniqueness. No point to fight
for a commodity. That's a race to
bottom. You buy for $20, sell for $20,
somebody else will else will sell for
15, 12, 11. Have your own community, one
narrow cohort of users who are selling.
And that community should be your
evangelist there. And that always
happens at somewhere little above, not
not to the basics. So you're not solving
basics of anyone right now. How does
India build the supply chain?
Great. So it's a process.
So the process is that you start with uh
initially to start with EMS. EMSS. EMS
is the electronic manufacturing services
that you start the EMS process. Then you
start getting the design out there in
country. Then after design you start
working on the supply chain the
component ecosystem
right so this is this all is a process
one by one I mean if I'm I'm 25 and I
want to start a component company I
raise a little bit of money put up a
factory how will I ever compete with
somebody in China who's manufacturing
millions of units no so you can do that
so there is so much of material which
goes inside for example a glue
on a glue machine on SMT is a glue
that's glue. So I just found out that
that glue the particular glue is still
coming from China we can why can't we
make that here and I stud you know I
started find out why the chemical
companies can make that glue out here
you can do that probably there is maybe
somebody has to find out and get into
that
I know someone you know who who said
okay after finishing my engineering what
should I do and all and then went on
search that what India is importing a
lot and he found out all the coins
material
right for the coins currency coins the
material we still import we started
making that and started supplying that
so you just is that an opportunity for
me I think US will in the tariff world
not buy from China like they once
components is a huge opportunity so for
example now India is projecting a market
of $500 billion by 2030 it's a huge
market 60% of that is components and
we're also incentivized to use the
locally manufactured manufacturing is
coming here 100% components will come
here and like batteries that's an
opportunity too 100% like I want to make
money I'm 25 in this industry component
is EMS is a I think next 10 years is EMS
so and the component PI scheme is coming
maybe by the time this podcast is out
the scheme will be announced how do I go
about starting that let's say a EMS
company a EMS manufacturer great so take
a mobile phone get into each and every
component there are so many there are so
in a mobile phone there are let's say
700 800 components maybe in his phone
maybe it will be more iPhone will be way
more right get into that how do I find
that out like I want to know
I'm assuming US China are going to hate
each other for some time more
Apple phones are made in the US they
can't buy that particular product that
they have been from China anymore how do
I figure out what that component is and
then how to build it just tear it down
these days it is actually simpler you
know you go on chat GP
There are sorry sites on internet where
you could just see tear down of
everything. down you can find out you
know what are the components and then
you find out okay how many components
are there in India go on the export list
import list that what all are getting in
the country right what is the volume
what is the and these days you can get
access to all the customs data easily
so um I think you huge opportunity you
should also work at EMS to get some u
industry knowledge experience there's
somebody working with him for a year he
would know everything where does
opportunity lie how big is the incentive
For someone like KLHL, say you're
selling nothing phones in India, you
source from me in Bangalore versus a
Chinese component
manufacturer. Is the incentive enough to
warrant the change in price? Um, so
right now we have we have to pay duties
on components that are sourced from
other countries like China. So the more
we can source locally, the more we can
lower the prices of our product, then be
more competitive on the market. So we're
very incentivized. And if we're able to
tap into PLI and I think the PLI
regulation will also be uh more and more
requiring of the brands to source
locally and they will raise the bar
every single year. Um we're very
incentivized to to source locally as a
business. We just need to make the best
decision for for our shareholders. So
till now you have told me go to chat GPT
figure out or no just you know just as I
said these days there are a lot of
avenues where you can go and find out
multiple sort of information right so I
figure out one component which is going
into US cell phone manufacturer which is
coming from China and then I go about
figuring if that raw material is
available in India. I identify that
there is. What do I do next to set up a
factory which makes it? Okay, let's take
an example.
Uh K, can I use your phone?
Let's say there's this USB socket. Yeah,
right. This USB socket is the most
abused
component here because let's say a
million times you're going to Right. So
this means to say that this will require
a special sort of material. Study that
material where that material is
available. who is manufacturing it at
what cost and uh absolutely go to the to
the root of that and then see what are
the if if you can go and visit those
these factories buying tapping someone
getting into your network these
factories in China wherever wherever
wherever if it if possible see and then
understand the standards see why this is
not happening why I gave you a glue
example Because people said no India
can't make that why can't we make that
we have we fantastic in chemical our
chemical industry our farmers they're
doing brilliantly well probably there's
maybe there's you know not awareness of
that that or the volumes and everything
but I think it's if we are going to go
let's say from 100 billion to $500
billion it's a massive opportunity
similarly here what else can be done
like see the outcome of this is we want
even if it's five kids who
start solving for the supply chain
problem dependency that we are talking
about. If that is the go-to action that
happens because of the time we have
spent today, I think we can all say
today was worth it. So like uh we and I
think we will need 5,000 of those kids
because it's a it's a huge universe and
we don't have it here. We have to bring
it in. Yeah. And by the way like brands
like us are desperately looking for
people to do it for us. I mean it's our
need also. What is the biggest need? Say
two things that you want. Let's say for
for us for an example in in watches we
do the largest component is the screen.
The screen is like $5 or something. And
if I import import there is a 15% duty
which means every screen I'm paying
what$ one and a close to $1. If you save
make it in India it's a huge volume.
It's maybe half a million, 1 million
screens a month. What is the margin in
screen business? I'm sure if he cost
arbitrage, if you look into it, if he
still makes 10% or 7%, it's just one SK
you have to keep producing. Oh, the you
know the smartphone screens from China,
those companies are losing money to sell
the screens. Yeah. Because they have
policies that subsidize the creation of
that uh industry. So at least for the
smartphone screens, it's very hard for
So you're saying our import duty has to
be higher than their subsidy at the
least. At the least if Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Right. So one is import duty and second
of course the PLI schemes coming on
components. Correct. We'll incentivize
to use more make in India. Any advice to
the government because I'm sure somebody
will be watching. How should the PLI
scheme be structured for components?
It's already structured. It's just going
to be announced in 2 three days. He
would be a part of it. So it's a good
scheme. Yes, it's a good scheme. It's a
it's a good scheme. But the see the
larger point here
is that you have to ensure that locally
made products make more sense for
anybody who wants who you know who's
selling let's say in India. I'm not even
talking about export. If KHL wants to
buy a let's say a middle frame, he
should be able to source it locally and
it should be cheaper for him not because
he's forced because of a regulation. It
should also make sense economically for
him to do that and that in today's world
because of scale can only happen with
custom duty or a tariff.
Yeah. So tariff no depending on the
components. Yes. I think plastic should
be very easy right to replicate here.
Yes, plastic and uh and second the as I
said the government incentive schemes
because you know if you see how China
was built because of all the government
schemes only and why their exports went
up because the export schemes are like
massive. You three continue talking like
I am a 25year-old I'm trying to learn
from three stalwarts of our consumer
electronic industry. I want to make
money. end goal the biggest money maker
is like um the industries with fewer
competitors right like Nvidia you look
at the Nvidia share price it's insane
example but even for for our industry
like I'm I think the chipset makers
their margins are way higher than the
EMS factories right I don't know is it
40 or Qualcomm is 40 60 40 45% I think
declared yeah gross margin um but Foxcon
is I think 10% % so like eventually we
also have to move up market right into
like more and more difficult lower
competition areas of the
stack. Yes. But um K again Nicl's point
is that how do we inspire the young
generation out here to start doing
something you know how do they spot
opportunities? Yeah. So as I said if you
tear down the phone Mhm. What are the
easiest five things 10 things you can
just pick up and say hey this I can do
this is a little is not that complex
by the way you know he's right you know
so making these
u mechanics for example the precision
mechanics is not that easy we still you
know it's a lot of things are getting
imported even on precision mechanics
but once there are a lot of incentives
and allm We have ample uh people here
who can take a shot at that. But curious
to hear like how how does the next uh
Qualcomm like if a kid is watching this
like say 30 years later they pray to
Qualcomm the next Qualcomm like how does
that path happen?
So you know you're KL you're just
straight away talking about a moonshot
but instead of a callcom one
qualcom I'm saying can we
make for example uh if I have to take
example of automobile let's say in terms
of components can we
make 300 or 500 mindas here ma is a good
example you know auto is all making
money all
Makes sense. Yeah, I think that's a
that's a very large opportunity knocking
on our door. How much money would I need
to start a factory around say the USB
port? I think very less, right? For USB
port US,
you would know it the best. Yeah, it's
uh
um you know Molly and all there are like
specialized Europeans who are working on
this.
Um but again it was just an example but
once you go inside N as I said you can
find out for example inside there is a
you have battery on battery to dissipate
the heat. You need some mechanism to
dissipate the heat. You need a graphine
small film of graphine which you can put
which can dissipate the heat. You can
make it here.
It will go in every phone. M so I'm not
saying straight away you go and target
okay I'm going to make the next Sony
camera or something like that and the
PLI scheme will incentivize all of this
so as of now they have structured it for
let's say components which are high in
value let's say which cover 70 to 75% of
the mobile phone but these are all B2B
businesses then everybody has a
different inclination towards uh what
they want to build no anything is fine I
just want to build something in this
place where I can actually make
money. Is there financing available?
Let's say I figure out a certain product
which is under PLI that I start
building but I don't have too much
initial capital. How does one go around
getting that initial
funding? If I come up with a business
plan and come to somebody like Rahul,
will you give it? Yes. If I if I see
that your product works
working as per the standards and then
would a bank give it I think yes but of
course bank works on collaterals I don't
have collateral there are few banks who
might you know is there some startup
scheme some government subsidy where I
can get that in yes you can there are
multiple schemes again yeah very good
point there's so many schemes which
people are not even aware of for example
for MSME sector for as you know from
invest India from startup India there
are multiple schemes going on which
people even are not even aware I'm not
aware how do I find out
then you need to go after that and find
out how many schemes are available and
then one by one just which one applies
to me yes for example there is a PL
everybody knows but there is a DLI which
is designled incentive for the chipsets
and all we should know why
there is a grant for that you need to
show your designs government you You
know once they will come inspect and see
what you're doing and then you can do
that for a right
idea you will knock on 100 doors one
door will open
but you need you need to knock
you just can't say okay okay as you said
either a bank will come up or a VC will
come up or an government scheme will
come up something will come up for a
right idea I was reading this thing
somebody had sent me an email saying
semiconductors something drastic is
happening in India. Is that a
possibility?
Like drastic means
like so the backstory goes that at one
point India was really focused on
semiconductors. There was one particular
factory which burned down but in the
last 20 years we've been left behind or
30 years we've been left behind and
they're restarting the
effort to manufacture more
semiconductors in India. Is that
possible with TSMC and all of that? The
whole world is relying on them, right?
You mean like start a new TSMC or get
TSMC to like both semiconductor design
and manufacturing? Can I So you can't
create
I think it comes down to like the depth
of the of the thing right like how many
millimeter so we working in one of the
companies on semiconductors and what
you're referring is there was one fab in
India only one fab which was in moi
government owned long back yes doing
probably
you
know 100 nanometers or something like
that today TSMC is doing two nanometers
two three two three correct M so of
course I mean you can't catch up with 2
nanometer even see China started their
semiconductor program 20 years back
they're still not able to compete on
that but it is very very important all
four of us like 15 years back or so we
ever thought that semiconductors will be
more valuable or important than oil not
even a thought came across to our mind
back then but if you see today it is and
I'm assuming the same thing I'm assuming
Assuming US China continue to fight and
Taiwan
becomes I don't know maybe our friend in
that fight or maybe not our friend if
our supply chain gets disrupted where we
can't get those 2 mm semiconductors what
does India do then it's a tough question
because you know it is divided in
multiple parts so it's not only about
two nano 2 nanometer is only one segment
then you have so government is saying
you start with let's say 35 nanometers
right now is good enough Because you
have to start coming slowly one by one.
M right. So even that you know if we can
start at
35 because those are larger components m
which can go into you know other things
you know refrigerators and TVs and
vacuums and you know on cars and all and
then slowly slowly you start coming in
for the its and the mobile phones but at
least for start attacking the you know
the 35 40 nanome 25 nanometers start
attacking that mm M so that is the
opportunity I mean straight away though
you know you can't leaprock as I said
China have put billions and billions of
dollars and still they are not able to
achieve that and there are and again
it's a country play a company can't
build something like this
country you know has to come into it for
example to do a let's say anything less
than 10 nanometers you need to have
lithography what is that is a machine
it's a technology that technology is
right
now
with Holland, Netherlands. There's a
company
uh this company name is ASML. No
competitors. So ASML has those machines,
right? You need to have access to that
in those machines. The software actually
is coming from the United States. So
it's a it's all a because it's a it's a
game where you need to work on this
technology and need to stabilize the
technology. So the government has to
come and play into that.
So it's uh it's way more deeper than
what we feel because you know uh but you
know semiconductor is a vast range. It's
uh it's not only that only doing a TSMC
because when we talk about
semiconductors we we always talk about
TSMC
memory why can't India has its own
memory can we design let's for example
in in your IT there is gen 4 there's gen
5 now there's gen 6 why can't India come
up with let's I'm talking about let's
say gen 8 or gen 9 end of the day you
have to have
that so these are all opportunities I'll
ask ask you a question on top of your
question only. Why is it not happening?
Because in India we were good in
services. So we were our services sector
was doing good. So people said okay
let's build on the services business. M
so if you see all these gen 4 5 half of
their manpower will be sitting in
Bangalore and Hyderabad and designing
for the other bigger brands who are
somewhere in US or other countries
but not for us because a we were not
having those government programs earlier
they were
not right not focused on creating
something like that
so where the buck was moving was okay
service is an easy business let's go
as I said half of the people working on
those technologies will be from India.
He was talking about Qualcomm or MTK
their biggest R&amp;D centers are in India.
Yes.
So the f so f but now we have you know
with the with the current government all
the new schemes coming
in people are becoming more aware of
that.
See today we are discussing about
semiconductors. M otherwise if it was a
consumer brand or electronics on that
why will we be discussing about
semiconductors because now all of us
because of the policies and everything
on whatever happened we are more aware
on that.
You're doing a bunch of very new things
right like with television operating
software there's one company that we're
both part of around television as well.
Yeah. What's happening in that world
would you like to tell us? No, that's
more on the on the aggregation because
the way we consume content is completely
changing. Can you tell us your thesis
around that? The thesis is that you know
you buy a product and then you start
getting multiple apps and then you start
paying to different
apps. then your user experience is then
that whatever recommendation one is
showing something else the other is
showing us some different recommendation
third is showing something else why
can't I have an experience wherein I
switch on my TV and then I don't have to
go in any app there is one user
interface and all the apps are stitched
into that you just type in your let's
say username let's say
nicl@gmail.com and then everything from
from your Netflix to your Z to your
Sony as per your choice and
recommendation everything starts coming
on one screen you're not going in an app
that's one area because again it's an
evolving
space and then you bundle it along with
the hardware piece wherein
you move on a SAS model how do you
um I'm pretty interested in this
business model because as a content
platform you don't want to be unbundled
right you want your own app your own
user experience. Yes. How how do you get
their stuff like it's not in their
incentive to unbundle their content?
Like you're saying, how do you get
access to that content? Yeah. For
instance, Netflix. If I'm Netflix and
you say you just want to take the
content, you know, apart from Netflix,
you take some other example because
that's a different animal altogether.
Let's say a hostra. Yeah. So I have my
own app, I have my own users. I don't
want to give you my content because then
I lose my competitive advantage. then my
content becomes a commodity on your
platform. So I mean the platform the
content platforms they would uh try and
hedge against this right so if there are
like say 25 apps which are the most
widely used apps out here and out of
25 90% of the apps you're able to get
inside the app and uh get the you know
permission for recommendation and
everything and then you know put it on
your screen for the user. I think it's
it's acceptable. So for them it's like
incremental. Yes. If I don't work with
you, I won't make this money. Might as
well make the money because they also
need distribution. Yeah.
So then then you have a big a few big
ones that are harder to negotiate with.
They will they will come in scale. So
once you achieve scale, they will say,
"All right, we we you know world." Yes.
It's a bit like cell phone and app
store, right? Yeah. Yeah.
So when there's a new OS on the cell
phone, the big app makers are not going
to adopt, right? They're going to wait
for the distribution to come first. So I
think it's about that adoption. Yeah.
But when you bundle, I think it gets
cheaper. Yeah.
Why don't you guys speak like I'm not in
the room and there are no cameras?
Yeah. Isn't we're trying to KL? What
opportunity exist in the consumer market
besides phones? What do I want to have
exist? No, no. I mean, what other
opportunities which Oh, what
opportunities exist for not for the
large players? I'm I'm only thinking
about like very big categories all the
time. Um, so I'm thinking about like EVs
and robotics stuff.
Uh, but I agree like if you're young,
you have to start with something Yeah.
more simple. What is China like? What
else do you think we can learn as a
country from them?
Uh I don't spend a lot of time thinking
about policy but I do think the PLI is
set up. You probably know more about PLI
than me but
um like we are very keen to be a part of
the the next generation PLI scheme.
Um I think if India wants to develop its
own smartphone ecosystem starting from
the factory EMS side is very good. uh
that's already happening. Incentivizing
foreign and domestic players to to build
here. It's already happening. I think to
reach the next stage um it can't just be
manufacturing and exports because
ultimately that's not the highest value
ad. The next stage will be to design and
engineer here as well. So what is the
next stage policy after the goal of PLI
has been accomplished? What is the next
stage plan? I'm not sure. I'm just
starting to spend more time and to learn
more about this. I think to your
question that what can we do if you see
what they have done in last 25 years in
terms of so all the government policies.
So we're discussing about incentivizing
that is one that is the one incentive
but rest of the other enablers for
example the whole supply chain in terms
of materials and everything they have
worked a lot deeper on that segment. In
terms of
logistics, they have created logistics
parks to enable that. Today, if we are
talking about for example, now we have
uh the let's say iPhones going and
exporting and doing all those sort of
things.
The way we are expanding, you will need
two full bigger, you know, large
aircrafts every week to f the product
from here to Chicago.
We need to have that we need to be you
know build bigger ports
wherein you can reduce the time because
they have done taken all that measures.
So not only in one segment because we
talk only about this but every segment
they have done you know with all those
policies.
Yeah I think customer electronics is
um very expensive and difficult thing
for somebody without experience to all
of a sudden go in. Experience is key. I
believe without that you can't do and
you in fact can't do also. I personally
I think
doing is expensive only you you'll 100%
make mistakes. I think we've we found a
a couple of themes you know where people
could start something more focused
something more niche lower risk lower
capex start from there evolve from
there. It could be on the consumer side
with the clothing or accessories. could
be on the supply chain side with uh
parts of the stack that are uh easier to
make and then just evolve from there.
Could be on the distribution side with
content creation as a means of
distributing uh information.
But Rahul, what is your thought? We have
seen all brands across the globe coming
to
India and consumer electronics. Hardly
there are brands we've gone out to gone
to gone outside India.
Indian brands. Yeah, Indian brands,
forget Southeast Asian countries for a
while, but none of the brands have gone
outside our home tough and played a game
there. Do you think uh world needs need
some new age brands? I have solid thesis
for that.
So I personally think India as a country
I mean we all work with scarcity
mindset. So what has happened that what
a US or a European entrepreneur would
try to solve a problem by throwing a
dollar a dollar is 90 rupees for us. So
what I'm trying to say for us every
penny counts and for something what
they're producing for
$100 a similar great quality product
Indian entrepreneur could build for
let's say 30 40% cheaper than them. we
have uh captive
consumption entrepreneurs now are very
smart they are very evolved traveled
done across why why can't we take that
arbitrage and take these brands to the
globe I mean we are good at marketing by
the way Indian entrepreneur software we
are good at hardware we can learn from
our
peers why can't Indian brands why can't
we build brands who are based out of
India and uh move to global scale
There are no brand existing everywhere
there are uh old traditional brands it's
starting now right
with you guys no so that's what we are
trying to do we believe that it is a
right platform for us uh we have gained
decent experience and international
markets we could do justice but I'm
generally talking we need more brands
one brand can't do I mean I've seen we
all buying international brands are you
talking about you want me to answer in
consumer electronics I'm talking about
consumer electronics specifically. Yeah.
In consumer electronics, you can go into
those markets where your products are
relevant.
Bang on. Okay. So for example, in Indian
demographics, whatever products you're
making, you're going to take the same
product because of because you have
scale and you go there. So that's what
I'm saying. So
when I mean I want to cater to a market
which is let's say mid because I don't
want a cheapest product. That's fine. So
Indian demographic. So Indian so those
products you have taken into those
similar categories and
similar you know geographies. Yeah that
you can do. Yeah. Southeast Asia all
other you know so for example all the S
countries then this side Russia, Eastern
Europe these are fantastic markets.
Yeah. Right. Then second if you're
saying that you want
to hit the upper deck. I'm I'm just
staying middle.
to I'm very clear let Sony Samsung play
the game they what they are playing or
Apple we don't want to touch them the
consumers are very loyal they have a
ecosystem they have advantages of
whatever they could so you already have
a scale in India and then when you're
going outside you know you go with that
same scale and get to that create one or
two more
brands and use leverage the scale what
you
And you know you can attack the market.
So that's what I'm saying. We can do it.
India need those brands. We are just no
more about basic necessity brand where
we're just solving for
features and you'll be surprised. I'll
tell you all where I'm coming from. When
we we just launched in Dubai in Virgin
stores, traditionally Indian brands
would have gone and launched a $20
product. We launched oursel at $75 to
$100 pricing and we're getting a great
response. I mean look at the kind of
response people are giving for a decent
price point products. Again innovation
is one is 100% innovation is needed. You
can't enter a commodity space.
Innovation and then you can have uh
create different brands for
uh you know different needs. One brand
can't serve all. That's true. You look
at here you have Oppo then you have
OnePlus then you have Realme under one
umbrella only. We have two brands. Yeah.
He has to come up with CMF because we
need the scale. Yeah, the scale 100% is
needed. I think you can build midm
market with a scale otherwise nobody
going to support you.
Yeah, but I think it's um it's the
Indian economy has gotten to a point in
time where there's an entrepreneurs with
a skill set to go global and there's
already the language uh advantage the
language and culture advantage easier to
do marketing. Yeah. Right. Easier easier
to do US or Europe.
Um but on the product definition side
it's easier to go to more similar
markets first. There will be more risk
going into you need product market fit
which I'm aligned. You go to like we
also going to similar markets which are
easy acceptance and then try to go in
territory. I respect all territories. So
I mean let's say US these are all are
tough markets. It's not easy to go and
break there. So I would like to go small
there do little trials fail and then
take on. Yes. So there are as I said
going to s count countries going
to you know Russia, Eastern Europe these
are all you know great markets for you
to do your trials and all and then also
tweak maybe we should start like a
hub like start a place where we fund
young entrepreneurs to build some of the
stuff we spoke about 100%
right like get some land give them the
resources you guys all have the know how
like start one place where people can
like an incubator of sorts with real
estate and uh and it's easy to do on u
and it could be anything you know you
can if somebody comes up with an idea
with a diaper which will have some
connectivity which will tells that it is
wet or not or whatever
it's same tech what you're using let's
say in the ring I just found out a tech
where uh My daughter I want my wife
wanted to monitor my daughter about
fever and you can't measure every time
for a kid. So there was a socks she
could wear for when she was 6 months or
a year. It could track the sleep, the
temperature and everything. So I mean
these are microniche markets but yeah
innovations are there. What's the deal
with these rings that you're wearing?
Why are they growing so much? Why is
everybody buying them? So I I think
market moves in different form factors
and uh market need
newness. This form factor like watches
are maybe mass adoption phase whatever
phase you want to call. Uh rings are a
new category early
adopters and people are getting more
health conscious also. Mhm. So they are
pairing it with their watches by the
way. They are not a replacement for a
watch. Is that an opportunity health
related consumer electronics?
Are you guys seeing any trends there? So
uh I wear a whoop on my feet.
So what I have realized so I am into I
mean uh I'm little bit into the space so
I understand it. So consumer is saying
it's good to have I want a fitness
device but I'll not track fitness. I
mean you would see a guy wearing a
whoop. I was talking and eating a
McDonald's burger and a cola and a 100
kilos.
So it's just visual cues to tell people
that I belong to this universe where I
know I want to know what I am but uh
they are not cautious. Mhm. I think
they're a little bit aware of it but not
there. India as a market internationally
yes people are more and more health
conscious preventive healthcare is you
know that patch which measures in
insulin spikes. Yeah. I've always been
thinking that at some point an Apple
watch can start doing that. Do you think
that's an opportunity if your watch has
a CGM monitor in it? So if you look at
use cases so I think these devices okay
diabetic is a very big uh use case uh
this problem and this doesn't work by
the way nobody nobody uses it for us we
have used for wellness but diabetic
patient also doesn't use it it is 5,000
bucks it's too expensive and nobody want
to break it every time so we feel
variable going to divert towards health
side like we were talking about health
as a segment 35 plus you start getting
those problems Apple is 100% working on
it but Apple will only come when it
becomes uh really solid mainstream
proven because it's health. Is there no
opportunity unique to India? No. What do
we want in health that other people
don't want which Apple would? No. I
think no this is a good space if
somebody's working on it. Uh honestly I
would like to invest in a space where
people are working on uh CGM. So Apple
is working. Samsung has a huge R&amp;D
center in Bangalore where they are
working on uh blood pressure and CGM uh
on device where it's non-invasive. So I
think in 2 three years time you'll see
it there. I believe in health. Health
has a PMF in consumer electronics and
another field that has PMF is uh
children's education. Parents are always
willing to invest in the future of their
kids. What would that look like? We have
a common friend who is building this
company
called Super Learn where he's trying to
build a tablet. Mhm. Which costs
$150 where you can't like really browse
the net and go to YouTube and Netflix,
but replace your school bag with that
device. You mean learning like that? Do
you think something like that could
work? That could work. It could also be
like a some form of smartwatch for kids
for learning maybe with a AI companion.
It could also just be a teddy bear with
that's there. No, the toys there. Miko
Miko is Miko is doing good. I just know
that uh it's a space where people want
to spend money and are not price
sensitive. So you wherever you are
spending you will spend for your
parents, you will spend for your kids
and your health and health. What do you
guys think of Elon Musk and Neuralink? I
like the thesis. It's trying to make the
communication more efficient. Um,
efficiency is always uh beneficial to
humanity, but maybe there's other ways
to get to higher efficiency. I I don't
know how long it will take for that to
really work for mass markets. Do you
think people will be willing to do that?
Like put something in your body, not on
your body? If the benefits are there, I
think so. But currently the
I don't think the benefits are there.
Just dotailing on into his question
wherein these days people are talking
more about organic they don't want to
take unnecessary medicines and
I mean for somebody who u who's disabled
then they get a lot of benefit from from
using that product today but at what
point does it become beneficial for a
normal person to use that and why I
think there's still some time to go.
Wouldn't you suddenly become so much
smarter if you have something in your
head which is telling you everything?
You can almost have that already now if
you have earbuds and with catch you can
speak to catch voice and with the AI
glass also coming you're sitting in
front of this this is the setup this is
happening and that's way easier to adopt
than operating something into your body
what happens to the world like if
intelligence is on call traditional
intelligence is on call or information
is on
call we still have to differentiate how
do we do that I think most people are
going to I think 80% of the population
will just chill and receive income from
the government and a small group of
people will leverage the new
technologies to push society and
humanity forward like universal basic
income. Yeah, I think that will happen
for sure. Yeah. I think you can't
replace you know emotional quotient out
of that you know that's what makes all
of us unique. All of us you give us the
same piece of information to all four of
us all four of us will behave
differently and we'll have different
actions. So I think that is something
which
uh you can't take away.
Mhm.
Do you think
little bit agree on this uh basic I
think 80% of the jobs will be done for
20% you would still need human the
productivity will increase so much but I
think he's also right that we all will
become more lazy like kids today don't
need to use their brain they will be
doing everything on you need to be very
self motivated but those people can
really leverage the technology to create
so much more productivity I wonder if a
kid will think tomorrow if I can just
regurgitate a book from my device at any
point then why read the book that's how
I was thinking when I was in school like
I can just Google the information why
should I memorize this okay last part I
want each of you guys to give one advice
to me the
25year-old having watched this today
tomorrow morning I want to wake up and
figure out what to build one piece of
advice would you like to go
uh I think uh if somebody need to plan
something in this space or whatever
space I think definitely a thorough
research is needed I mean why you're
going and uh I think you need to have
that fuel or patience also to build it
that passion we are we are talking about
and and do pick up a narrow niche
instead of going too broad I mean pick
up a smaller a subset of whatever
whatever problem you want to solve, go
double down and then move on. Uh
definitely they're going to be failures,
learnings, but I would term them as
learnings and you keep pivoting with
that. So that would be one thing. I
would say be really sure that you want
to do something. Um it's not always fun.
Um I think most people should not be
entrepreneurs. Most people have a much
higher quality of life doing other
things, specializing in a tech field or
working for somebody else. Um, very
inspiring advice to wannabe
entrepreneurs, Kal, I must say. It's
better better to say it now, right?
Rather than finding out down the line,
let's be really short. I think it's like
it needs to come from
a deep passion around something because
it's going to be hard. There will be
euphoric days, but there will also be
terrible days like lack of sleep for
weeks.
Like we've all been through that
probably like why are you going to keep
pushing forward when you when you face
those difficulties? I think you got to
be sure. You got to be sure this is this
is what you really want to do that
you're passionate about it. Um I believe
in the potential of every individual
person. Like if you really want to
accomplish something you can but there's
a cost associated with it. And I think
for most people the cost is not worth
it.
Rahul,
my only advice will be show me your five
friends
because if you have to build a
successful company then you have to keep
a good company. So if you have and you
will become like that. M
so if you have a good company of people
who are
like-minded then even if you are you
know if there's certain qualities and
things which you don't possess you can
you
know a rely learn and do and you know
and and come up with
um come come out with various
difficulties. So
basically you will become like whatever
your company is. So if your company is
like there are guys who are doing other
things you will eventually you will you
know go that way. Mhm. But if you have
five people reading
biology, you will certainly go, you
know, that far. Even if you are not, you
don't want to learn. You say, "No, I'm
not a bio person. I am I'm a physics
person." But at least you're doing
physics. You're not just doing anything
else. So just keep a cohort of those
people.
Um and I think you will uh a lot of
things will get resolved. Fair. My
fleeting thought I'm quite excited about
this component incubator. Yeah. I would
say let's each each of us put in a
little bit of money, not care too much
about the upside and try and get not too
many. I think we should find four kids,
support them in building a component
company with time, money and all of that
and maybe other people can learn from
what we have done and replicate and I
hope we're successful but thank you to
each one of you for flying into my home
and doing this very kind and I will
reach out to you for different kinds of
advice at different type at different
points of time and also to help all the
young wannabe entrepreneurs in India.
But thank you. No, no. Thank you so much
and thanks for the great food. Good
food. Thank you guys.
It's like a high protein. Uh it's
protein powder, yogurt, and dark
chocolate. Very nice. Yeah, it's all
like really clean food. Yeah. Did you
guys have fun? Was that okay? No. No.
Super.