Heat. Heat. [Music]
[Music]
[Music]
You seem like a very certain person. You take the contrarian opinion in a very certain manner.
Almost certainly with no doubt, there isn't a job where AI won't be able to do
80% of 80% of all jobs. And that's what today's 20 or 22 year old has to take
for granted. [Music]
Hi Vinod, thank you for doing this. For our audience in India which are largely
entrepreneurs or going to be entrepreneurs, I don't want to introduce you. Maybe you can tell us a little bit
about your life. Your story is very well known so I don't have to rehash it for them. But maybe you tell us a bit about
life, how you began and where you are today.
Well, you know, life my life has been pretty simple. Well, I haven't done too
many things, too many different things, but I was always curious about
technology. And the piece
people don't understand is or don't know. I would say there's nothing to
understand. Do you want me to stop when there's a sound overhead or keep going?
Is it okay? Yeah, it's okay. Okay. uh makes it more natural.
Okay. Yeah. Sometimes people do and sometimes people don't. Right. Do you do a lot of these
interviews? I do a fair number. Yeah. Yeah. Um
when I was 16, I'd go from Delhi where I lived.
Mhm. To Old Delhi to rent old magazines. That's how you got access to
information. There was no place to go Mhm. to get access to magazines or
others unless you could afford to buy them and we couldn't. So, uh, but I used
to get old issues of technology magazines, uh, especially the electronic
engineering times to see what was going on. And I read about Andy Grove as a
Hungarian immigrant coming and starting a company here. And that's what
fascinated me and got me interested in why can't I start a technology company?
I had very little interest and still have very little interest in business. I do it because it needs to be done but
I mostly am interested in technology and the impact it can have.
So I got enamored by this guy and all I
knew about Hungary was they had great stamps. So if you collected stamps back then you always wanted Hungarian stamps.
Mhm. But I followed his story. Why did you want Hungarian stamps?
Oh, I used to collect stamps as a kid. There wasn't like 16 things to do.
There was no internet. There was no libraries you had access to. There was not a lot of magazines. You
there wasn't much to read or get information from. So, you had hobbies
like stamp collecting or coin collecting or uh I I couldn't afford vintage car
collecting which some people did but I worked on cars like that but um so there
wasn't a whole lot to do. Um and I used to read these magazines while renting
them and usually when the magazine got old in the area like in the US they got
shipped and you could rent them. So that's what uh fascinated me. It could be done. I
didn't know anybody in business. I didn't have anybody I knew who was actually in business. So I didn't know
what that was like. Mhm. Neither family nor otherwise.
So you did engineering at IIT and then came to the US for your masters at
Carnegie Melon in biomedical engineering and then business in Stanford. Which part of this academic career
formed you or shaped you today? You know, I would say every step
was about a particular goal. Mhm.
engineering at it was because I was interested in technology and electrical engineering seemed pretty damn
interesting. There was nothing called computer science back then. That was I joined IIT in 1971.
Um so that was interesting and then I got curious about
biomed engineering. U there wasn't really such a discipline.
We did some projects in India in biomedical engineering but there was no biomedical engineering department
anywhere in India and I got involved with a professor there professor Guha
and we did some things between IIT Delhi and all India institute of medical
sciences I was curious and then I just said well masters in uh biomedical
engineering would be cool and so I came to the US to do my masters but my real
goal goal was to get to Silicon Valley and start a company, right? And the MBA was a necessity just to get
to Silicon Valley, right? So, I have an agenda for today, Ben Venod. Mhm.
As an investor, the big question I have today is since everything is changing so quickly with
technology changing, I want to figure out which industries, sectors
might be most relevant 10 years from now. either to invest in or build a
business in. The question is essentially as a young entrepreneur in India where
do the tailwinds really lie and where should I focus
my efforts on over the next decade. So, a lot of what I'm going to talk to you about today will kind of like focus on
that. And uh from all that I've watched
in your interviews and from the few times I've spoken to you via that common
uh pledge community we are part of, you seem like a very certain person. uh
certainty has been an element of most interviews I've watched say 10 years
ago, 5 years ago or even today. You take the contrarian opinion in a very certain
manner. To me, I feel like certainty is not
necessarily a good thing, but it's the innate human conditioning. Uh, do you
see yourself like that? As somebody who believes in something and makes up his mind and sticks to it?
Um, I would say no. I would say well, you know this when you
built your company. Mhm. Think about how much did you know about
where you would end up? Nothing. Nothing. Mhm. That's true most of the time.
Mhm. Did you even know the space you were in was a valuable space to start a company
in? You probably did have some hunch of that. So I I I like to say my fundamental
belief in life is people have personalities
and they choose to either
reinforce that or go beyond that. And there's two ways. One is you don't want
to fail, which fundamentally means you don't want to take risks, which
fundamentally means you're not going to do anything new. And that's perfectly reasonable thing to do. And people get
comfort in that certainty. That certainty is of very little value
to me. What I like is
a shot at doing the impossible. And I like to say
skeptics never did the impossible. Think about it. If you're a skeptic,
you're always finding reasons why something won't work. If you're starting your company
and if you paid attention to all the things you didn't know
or didn't know you didn't know, you wouldn't start the company and where
would you be? You'd have a steady job in some corporation and this fine. It's a perfectly
respectable thing to do, but you wouldn't be creating anything new.
Would you say a skeptic and a contrarian investor have a lot in common? A
contrarian is skeptical about the incumbent norms of the day.
Um I would say no. Skeptics to me are
always saying why things can't be done. Mhm.
Entrepreneurs um in investors is a whole different thing. I don't really think of myself as
an investor or always saying
what if something was possible. Mhm. And in the technology world, it's
particularly important cuz I'm never certain, but I know what technology
makes possible quite well. I can make reasonable guesses
at what the world could be and then you work to make that world happen. If you
happen to make it happen, it'll be successful whether you're a entrepreneur
or an investor. And I always think about my life that way. Like if something's possible, I
want to make it happen. Mhm. You know, electric cars
were always possible. You knew you could put a battery in a motor in a car instead of a gasoline engine or a diesel
engine. Uh but nobody in the automotive business was going to do it. And if they did,
they made halfarted poor attempts. You know, General Motors spent billions
of dollars trying to do a half-ass job at an electric vehicle, EV1, EV2.
Toyota did the lowrisk approach of adding a hybrid
engine. Uh you don't create the different world that way. You increment it. And there is a world of incremental
innovation and lots to do there. But people who want to be in the safe domain
do that. Elon Musk created an electric vehicle
almost went bankrupt a few times in doing it but he followed his belief
there and then made the world happen. I don't believe if we'd have electric cars
dominant today be 25% of our car all car sales in California today.
um if Elon hadn't made that world happen.
So every expert in every large automotive
company or every McKenzie study would say the opposite of what actually
happened. And it's sort of this if it's possible, you have to make it happen. It doesn't
matter whether you're talking about cars or rockets or
the internet. You know, the telco companies, AT&T and all those people had
such naive ideas about what the internet should be. Um they told me in 1996 when
we started Juniper, they would never adapt this PIP. Mhm. And I do believe if Pradep Synindu
and I hadn't started Juniper, there would be no TCP IP in the public
internet. Mhm. Cuz Cisco was not going to develop anything. And any of the traditional
telco suppliers did the simple thing of listening to their customers, which is a
good habit if you're trying to be incremental, a really bad thing if you're trying to be revolutionary.
For everybody who doesn't know you veno, if I were to describe you in like 60 seconds, I would say
a very precautious, academically gifted Indian boy who went to IIT Delhi, came
into the US, picked two other friends and started Sun Micros
Systemystems and then picked a great bet after the liquidity event of selling Sun
or part of it in picking TCP IP over the ATM protocol of of the time. And then
ever since then, you're more the kind of investor who's betting on edge cases, who's probably taking a 100 bets knowing
95 will fail, but the five will give you exponential returns. Is that a good way to describe you?
I don't think so. Uh that's not how I think of myself. I think no matter what
you en environment you're in. Mhm. Now what's key is I got sparked by
reading a single article about Andy Grove starting Intel in Silicon Valley. Mhm.
And that must have been 1970 or somewhere around then. Mhm.
That was 1516 something like that. um
and then sort of not stopping there right saying how do I make this happen I'll
give you examples when I was at when I started at IIT Delhi there wasn't a single computer
programming class at any IIT anywhere right
in India mh so what did I do I said that'd be cool to do
so we started a computer programming ing club and start the first real
class in programming at any as a hobby club. Mhm.
In IIT Delhi. There was four of us and we just we sort of made that happen.
Mhm. I was talking about biomedical engineering. What happened? I got curious about
as an electrical engineer, the electrical phenomena in the human body.
um the heart, the brain, the the the nervous system. And so we
started literally started with three or four of us the biomedical engineering
program at IIT Delhi, right? It wasn't an official sanctioned thing.
and and and you say to people at 16 or
17 you can make programs new programs happen at IIT Delhi as a student or new
programming happen it's not what people imagine possible but but I just sort of had this tendency
to not accept the things as they were so I think if
if I were to characterize myself if I thought something should happen. Uh
whether it's starting a company in Silicon Valley or starting a biomedical engineering program or the first ever
computer programming uh class in any IIT, you just sort of worked at making
that happen and be clever about how to make it happen. Not say, you know, the
usual thing people would say is they should start a computer programming class. Well, they is who's they? either
you do it or you don't and make it happen. And it's no different. That was a microcosm
of what Elan Mini said. They should be electric electric vehicles and I'll create them because
they, which is General Motors and Ford and Volkswagen, aren't going to make that. So, it's this characteristic of
imagining what's possible, especially technologically, and then just making
them happen. Sun was the same way. My first startup before Sun, Daisy Systems was the same
way. Um, and there were, you know, so you take on imagine the
possible and try and make it happen and don't give up when it fails even in a
single journey. And you know, five things could have failed at any one of
these efforts definitely at some or others.
Mhm. but never gave up. I wanted to come to
Silicon Valley. Stanford rejected me twice, said no to admitting me. And I I
always found a way to come at keep at it. So, persistence, sort of passion for
a vision and then persistence through being kicked in in the shins many many
times. Um you you don't give up on that. To what end? Venod
because it's your passion. Right. Right. And I think the most important thing in life is a passion for
a vision to make it happen and then the persistence to make it happen as you go through the
ups and downs and and frankly um also being smart about
how you approach it, what teams you assemble just
do you think that's the point of life today? Uh well, everybody should have a different point in life,
right? If I'm a great artist, my point in life may be just great painting, right?
And if I'm a great artist, my point may be great paintings I love, or it could
be great paintings that go for great prices at the New York art auction. I I
believe those are not the genuine artists. The artist who paints for themselves is the gen artist. It's
whatever mission you set for your life, right? And I think most happiness and
most troubles and travails come from pursuing
a mission. That's a great way to describe it. If you can tell me today at 70 ven
what is your passion? What are you looking forward to in life? Oh, I'm I expect
in the next 20 years at age 70 if I'm healthy because that's one thing
nobody controls. uh
I expect I will do more affect more change in the world in the next 15 20
years. Mhm. than I've done in the last 50 years of my life. That's very simply the goal and
it'll be to make certain things happen that I'm passionate about. And why is that the goal? To affect
change in the world. Is it posterity? No. Uh and you know I believe when you die
you die and I'll be buried under some tree and my ash is wrinkled somewhere or logic
logically that would mean that you have to improve the qualitative nature of life
today versus worry about the change you create. Well, so I think the question to
ask and the question I say is let's say say 25 years from now age age 95.
My father lived to age 95. So that's a good metric.
If I'm lying on my deathbed, what do I wish I'd spent the last 25 years on?
Almost certainly it won't be I wish I made more money. M almost certainly it wouldn't be I wish I
played more golf or went sailing or spent more time at resorts.
None of that I think will matter to me. Yeah. So So or I owned another house.
Do you suspect it would be the change you brought in the world? I think it'll be how satisfied my brain
is with what it was able to do and I how I utilize my brain. I think a lot of
people when asked the same question on their deathbed, they tend to see they
tend to say things like, "I wish I spent more time with my friends. I wish I
loved more. I wish I was more myself and didn't have to put on a mask or a projection." And uh
so that's really important. So by far I still always prioritize family over
work. I know your family. I Yep. You met them? Yes. At the giving pledge.
Um the nobody would say
I don't spend enough time there and I love spending time with my dogs.
In fact, so I do prioritize that thing, but I can't impose my time on my kids.
So how much time I spend is more constrained by them, not by me. and I'm
very close to all my kids. Um, so yes, it's what matters to you.
Family definitely is right at the top, but going drinking with buddies, that's
just I don't like drinking anymore. Uh, maybe. Did you ever? No, I never did. But, you know, I didn't
mind going out for a beer. I don't do that anymore. Uh
what I really enjoy is whatever time I can spend with family and helping the
people I care about in any way. But that's more constrained by their time,
not by my time. Mhm. And then it's use my brain to solve hard
problems that nobody else will work on. So it's additionality in that sense. if
I can work on things. Look, I'm almost certain fusion,
Commonwealth Fusion wouldn't have started and the world needs fusion. Mhm.
And it's Yes, that's a good thing to do, but it's also like selfish for me because it's a
hard problem and the hardness is what I love solving for. Why is that, Venon? Why do you like a
harder problem? Why do people like climbing Mount Everest instead of a smaller mountain?
Ego. So few can do it. So I did it. It's a big deal. Well, so you could call it that. Yeah.
I like things that will have a large impact.
So in that sense, it's legacy. But do but I do it in a way where I'm not the
entrepreneur building Commonwealth Fusion. Sam Alman's building open AI, right?
Uh, you know, there's ar no building public transit, but the world needs all these things.
So, you know, I have a document I wrote up that's a public document when I was
60. Mhm. So, that was the that AI will change the world. No, no, the the at 60 I said what do I
want to do by then? back then I said next 25 years of my life. Uh I at 70 I still say next
25 years. I feel like uh I'm in the same time horizon.
Mhm. But I wrote a document. It's a 50-page document on what do I want to work on for the rest of my life.
Mhm. And I called it reinventing societal infrastructure with technology.
Mostly because everybody I talked to said it can't be done. And so it was really the Mount Everest
aspect of a hard problem that doesn't think that people don't
think can be done that I imagine 10 years ago and it's a public document.
It's on our website. So, and I just thought when I started on the writing that I
thought I'd find one problem to work on. Mhm. And I found there was no part of
private GDP, non-governmental GDP. Mhm. That I couldn't work on in a way that
would be hugely multiplicative. Mhm. That means give all 8 billion people on the planet
the same lifestyle that the richest 800 million people on the planet, 10% have
without destroying the planet. And I've always been passionate on the climate issue, right?
Because it's such a long-term problem, people don't spend enough time on it. It's not something that can be solved
when it shows up, right? Um so um I defined them
and started working on them and our portfolio 10 years later reflects all
those areas pretty much. Now we do other things too because we have to have decent fund
returns to keep getting the privilege of investing more. Um but that's those
heart problems really challenged me and you know my old partner John Der used to
say the only the way to get something done is told tell no that can't be done
and I I I do that that's an ego thing if something can't be done then I want to
attempt it right in your many successful pursuits as an
entrepreneur has the techn technology element of it or the ability to sell an idea element
of it. What has been more valuable to you? I think I always first focus on what
technology makes possible. Mhm. So one of my goals in my lifetime is to eliminate most cars in most cities.
Mhm. So if we put a 25 year metric on that by 2050 we should be able to eliminate
that. Now there isn't another person in the world who told me that's reasonable.
I'm pretty sure it not only can be done but it will be done. Will it be directly proportional to the
density of population in cities? No, I think most transit should be public transit. So in a tier three four
five town with a scarce population of say I'm making a case for urbanization
turning around deurbanization almost say instead of millions of people crowding
around one city center you have smaller cities fewer people far spread out does
public transportation work from that lens yes for the following reason and this is
what I mean by these are conceived as hard engineering pro hard problems
but if you're clever you can solve them um in fact you're exactly right that's
the model for India so in the year 2000 I wrote a blog
they weren't called blogs then um called the bicycle commute economy
for India and essentially
I speculated instead of having everybody from the villages migrate
to the major cities and having huge huge cities like we are starting to have.
There should be a city like aggregation of people. So you get economies of scale
within a bicycle commute of the hometown or the home village of every person.
Mhm. all billion and a half people in India but it was less than a billion and a half back then and I figured there'd
be 3,000 major cities there's 700 districts in India um so the
idea that there was sort of an aggregation Mhm. of a a million or two million
people in each side as the optimal size of a city where it's still small and
personal and within a bicycle commute but people aren't moving from Bihar to
Mumbai. Mhm. Uh and not able to go see their family very often which leads to social
isolation, broken up families, drinking all that other stuff. Do you think AI is bad for big cities and good for smaller
cities? The model you're explaining, I I think AI is good either way.
Mhm. Uh and we can come back to it. I I watched your interview of the utopian and dystopian scenarios where
you made a very utopian case for it. Yes. Uh I did. But you know, it was
around 2000 that I wrote this piece called the bicycle commute economy. It might even be on our website still. Mhm.
And it was specifically for how the India was discussing
how to set up the telecommunications network. Mhm. Where to set up
you know they they were mostly thinking landlines then not cell phones and
um but my point is that is a good aggregation and
but policy will determine that. Mhm. Not technology. Mhm.
And then technology will serve that scenario. I did believe with the right
telecommunications infrastructure and good communications, you could enable
that model to work without needing to move to a big city because a lot could
be done locally and today believed that technology even more so today can make that possible and make a lot of the
services that weren't available in a small city of a million or two million people possible today. Mhm.
So really have every person in India be able to live within a bicycle commute.
Now today's a little different but back then most of the population was rural.
So you had to speculate that most of it will move to cities as happened in this country and happened
in other countries too. Right. Right. China's seen some of this migration with pretty negative
consequences of people moving away from their communities. If you were a betting man, would you bet on deurbanization or
urbanization in the next decade? Uh, I think it will depend on in each
country on the policies they adapt and the incentive systems they set up. Which do you suspect is a better policy?
Oh, dearization is clearly a better policy. Right. Yeah, I believe.
Right. And if I would bring it back to our audience, Venod, assume I'm a
22year-old boy or girl in India. I want to learn from Venod who has done
a spectacular job of calling what industries might do well tomorrow
in I want help from you in figuring out where I should spend the next 10 or 20 years of my life. Which industry should
I work in in terms of a job or which industry should I start a company in?
So now you come to a very hard question. Um you know if I'm 20 by the time I'm 35
the year 2040 the world will be more different from
today by in 15 years. Mhm. Well within the lifetime. If you go into
medical school and take five six years doing that, you waste your half that time
than the world is today from 20 1970. So you'd have to look back 50
years 50 years or more. Why don't you call 5 years for me? I want to learn from you in making my
career choice today. So if 10 15 years are too far ahead to extrapolate I'm 22
today tell me for when I'm 27 5 years from now. So the the answer is the same for both
right sorry long-winded way right the point I was making is we'll see more change in next 15 years than we've seen
the last 50. Mhm. And 50 years ago the the world especially in India was a very very
different world. Mhm. You know in 1970 I never had a TV
at home or a telephone at home. Like even when I left India I'd never had a telephone or
a TV at home. Right. Right. It wasn't something that was in most homes in India or running water or very basic
things. And that's how different the world will be in 15 years. Um almost certainly with
no doubt there isn't a job
where AI won't be able to do 80% of 80% of all jobs. So 80% of all jobs
AI will be able to do most of it within the next three to five years.
So now I'm getting really in. So if you look 10 or 15 years out, there's no
chance there's a job that humans do that AI can't do almost as well with some
minor exceptions which I think today I have a hard time saying will happen for sure for regulatory or other reasons
like a heart surgeon or a brain surgeon. But even those AI will be able to do it
better than a human, but regulation may not allow it, right? But leaving aside those exceptions, the
vast majority of jobs um will be done
will be capable of being done by an AI. Mhm. And that's what today's 20 or 22 year
old has to take for granted. So what matters
the first the single most important thing that matters is not specialization
in a area. I don't learn welding or I don't learn finance. Uh I learn the
ability to learn. Mhm. Be able to move around rapidly as the world evolves and learn rapidly. And I
have to say today at age 70 I'm learning at a much faster pace than I've ever
learned in my whole life ever. Uh in every 20 year old
should strive for this ability to jump into any new area. Mhm.
Uh whether it's a physics problem or a biology problem or a finance problem.
just this ability to think from first principles and learning new areas because GPT can
teach you any new areas uh and AI will have that capability to
be able to leverage these things well. So I would say you have to optimize your
career for flexibility not a single profession. Okay,
that's the most important advice because you don't know what will be around. Uh, almost certainly
this interview could be done without us physically meeting on real video
generated by an AI and the AI may be directed with what camera angle somebody
wants. Mhm. I hear you Vinod when you say the rate of change will be faster. I'm going
to as a 22 year old be more adaptable and flexible. I still need to make a
choice today. Do I work in a IT services company? Do I work in a nuclear fusion
company? Do I work in a data center? I still need to pick.
Yeah. So I I I do think it almost doesn't matter where you start, right?
Okay. I'm saying first education is going to be valuable to
have learn to learn how to learn not to be good at one thing like being
an accountant or a chartered accountant right that's not going to be important
but that education the process of learning how to learn and in fact one of the best things about computer science
isn't that
you can look you know programming. Mhm. Because you know Google's gone from 0%
AI generated code to I think they last claimed 35% of all code being written in
Google is being written by an AI. But it's the process of thinking that
computer science teaches you really well. Mhm. and learning architectures and
systems and system thing. Some of those things uh are about learning to learn
but you can do it in a number of areas. So it's not just computer science.
Um, so I would say there's a wide range of things, but
keeping your lens zoomed out for the widest angle
is sort of the way to think about how you should go about your career. So you're saying don't be a specialist,
be a generalist. Be a generalist, not a specialist. Absolutely. Right. And learn how to be a generalist. Mhm.
Learn how to use AI at the best. Uh and we may be, you know, maybe it'll
eliminate all jobs. AI will. But the fact is for certain the people who don't
know how to use AI will be obsoleted by people who know how to use AI first,
right? And there if you're dynamic and learning, then you can move with whatever is happening in the world. I
would say the following. It's just because we can't predict the
future doesn't mean it won't be dramatically
different. Mhm. We just don't know what it will be. I
like to say something else um which is most people most of the time
assume improbables are not important. Mhm. I've always assumed the exact
opposite. Only the impro improbables are important. We just don't know which of a
thousand improbables is important. So what do you do in that case? You go for
agility. You follow trends. You move around. You be more adaptable and
flexible. Do more for more first principles thinking. It's a very different way of growing up whether
you're 20 or you're 60 or 70. And you know clearly I'm learning more
now as I said and so today I feel like uh I can have
an intelligent conversation around cell therapy in biology or about fusion. I can do
both. Or about caro efficiency in steam engines which we discussed today for
some asteric reason. You know um certain fundamental things uh you you
have a broad knowledge on which you can build other knowledge. So what is that pedestal of knowledge you acquire and
how do you keep expanding it is very very important. Most people stop
learning and I think I would say you know if you get a job as
a waiter at a restaurant 20 years later you haven't gained a lot more expertise
that you didn't gain in the first year as a waiter at a restaurant you're not
exponential compounding of your capability but other jobs if I pick the right one
your knowledge compounds and your capab capability compounds over time. So I
would look at the basic principle of financial compounding in in knowledge and cap job capability
as a young individual what will make it compound and then you have to intersect
that with what's interesting to me what do I have passion for if AI were to
disrupt all jobs will AI also need to be nationalized and we move back to a
socialistic economy in a I you know look
or does capital continue to remain the mode going into a world like that?
It's very hard to tell. It depends on policies each country adapts
and I think each country or at least each region will make different choices.
Um so why do we have capitalism?
It was fundamentally for economic efficiency. The world of Adam Smith
was about economic efficiency. And the idea that if if a human is doing
a job, they'll be much more efficient if they're doing it for themselves and earning
more income. the the the need for efficiency may
decline dramatically in most areas, not in all areas. You you know, you'll still
need to be efficient in the amount of steel or cement or copper you use, but
efficiencies role will decline. Mhm. enhance
uh how you structure it and how you give
the benefits of these technologies to everybody
is is a social choice. It's not a technology choice. It's not a choice
entrepreneurs will make. Could one argue that before Adam Smith cropped up in
Scotland, if you go back many centuries before that, man was still looking out
for his best, his own interest. So we might not have had the term capitalism
in today's parl. Always about capitalism, right? In a post AI world as well, we will feel
the need to distinguish ourselves and compete. Yes. But will we have the ability to? So
imagine the following. uh you've seen my wife's company CK12.
If every child in India, which I hope happens in the next five years,
has a free AI tutor. That's entirely possible today at a
small fraction of the education government budget the government has today.
And it'll be better than the best education a a rich person can offer their kids by
hiring them personal teachers. Almost certainly the AI will do a better job
than the most expensive tutor or teacher you can hire for your kids if you're
rich and can afford anything. In that world, education is really free and it's
ongoing. Mhm. And whether it's
sixth grade education or college education or professional education, it
doesn't matter. And you'll be able to do anything at any time and switch your
majors because you don't have to go back to college for three or five years uh to
change from electrical engineering to mechanical engineering or from medicine to something else. Uh I
think that world is soon. Um imagine so education's free. Imagine
if medical expertise was free. Mhm. Every doctor was free. Mhm.
Imagine every lawyer was free and every judge was free. So AI could judge a a
legal dispute. So everybody had access Mhm. you know most people in India probably
can't hire a lawyer to enforce their rights and that's why we don't have real justice, right?
Access to fairness. uh and of course the courts are b bottlenecked and you can have AI judges.
So and frankly 10 years ago I wrote about
the poorest person can have the best wealth advisor. Mhm. at their level,
even if they're making 5,000 rupees a month, they because they can because it's in
and somebody who makes a lot more won't have better advisor. In fact, even if you want to
just tax jar, dodge and other do tax schemes and stuff, the AI will be able
to figure that out better than a human. So in that world,
how do you distribute wealth? If if a farm worker can do the same
job that an oncologist can, you pay them the same, almost certainly it'll be true
15 years from now. And I mean that almost certainly it'll
be true. Right? So very hard to predict how this sorts
out and many countries will resist it because unemployment it causes
dislocation. Mhm. Which people always object to. Mhm.
Based on that if the AI models of today the incumbent world are controlled by
one geography how do you think of sovereign AI in countries like India? Well, that's why we have um we have
Saram in India. You know, I've always assumed countries will want sovereign AI. That's why we
invest in Saram in India. We invest in a company called Sakana in Japan for the
same reason. Now, certain populations aren't large enough to have their own
AI, but regions do. Do you think the time is near when we
all start capitalizing and protecting our data in
a manner that we give access to some AI based on our
preferences or geographies? Uh again that'll be a function of government policy.
Right. But Europeans have very different data policy than the US does.
Right. likely outcome. You think? I don't think so.
I think look, you can choose not to share any information with Google today.
Mhm. Or wipe out all your information.
But do you then get the benefits of the services
on which they can c which they can customize to you? I have no question I'd
rather share my data and get customized services than get
services that are not customized to me. I would say that if my data is the
commodity that is bringing revenue to company X, I would want to
get a share in the revenue in one manner or another. But you do
um Reed Hoffman has a new book called Super Agency. If you read it, he talks about
the fact that you know if you ask people the following question
at what price would you
not use Facebook, right? Like if how much would you pay if I said
I'm taking it away, but you can get it back if you pay for it. And it's like $40 or $50 a month.
Mhm. How much does Faith's book make from you per month on average? About4 or $50 a
year. So you're getting pick a number $600 worth of value and they're getting
$50 worth of value in a year. What is a fair exchange? Everybody has
the option to not buy into these services. Now, there's lots of nuances,
but is an economic surplus created?
Yes. Um, again, it's a policy question.
Yeah. it kind of like government policy will have a lot more to do with these things
than people realize today and you know I've argued and I would
argue as part of Aadhaar today we have UPI
which takes away the need for Visa and Mastercard so it's a 3% tax on the
economy that Indians don't pay but everybody in the US pays uh Uh but
what if in in addition to your payment services there was medical services and
education services. My bet is every Indian could get that at less than a
dollar a month or a billion dollars a year a month for each of these or 10
billion a year. It's so trivial in cost.
If I was PM Modi, I'd do be doing everything I can to get those as common
services. And at that point, you know, because AI is doing the work, you don't care about
economic efficiency. Your government is as efficient as private enterprise in
these services that can be made into AI. And they should be. They're so
accessible today. They'll always be available. You know, if you live in a
village, you shouldn't have to go take a day's journey to go get a basic medical
checkup and the doctor sees you for 5 minutes and then you spend a day getting back to your village. It just shouldn't.
Mhm. And 10 years ago in this document I wrote about the fact at some point in
the future much more we are 5 minutes from Stanford
hospital and I wrote about the fact that a village in India I will get better
cardiac advice cardiac care than I can get at Stanford because Stanford will
still in 15 years have their cardiologists and in the village there'll be AI
almost certainly. True. So should the government include all of these services or as many of these services for free?
They can't include everything. Housing will still be a material thing
and so you can't give it away for free. But the software based services that depend on expertise. Personal lawyers
for everybody, personal tutors for every child or adult, personal medical care
advice. You know, if you need surgery or medicine, you still need a physical thing. But half the economy could be
covered in almost free services from the government. And to be honest, I'd love
to do that in India, right? It's such a no-brainer. And make it available in the next 5 years.
But let's talk about what entrepreneurs have as opportunities. I get away into this.
No, I heard you and Bill debate this. Why does regulation not allow doctors in
the UK? I think you were making a case for Yeah. Yeah. I heard you make that debate.
Look, mental health services aren't available in India. In the UK,
we have something that's used by 40% of all NHS mental
health clinics to intake patients. What does intaking a patient mean? a
conver a therapist talk to them and classify their mental illness.
The AI is much more accurate than the human therapists. 93% accuracy for talk-based therapy
kinds of conditions. Uh are you bipolar? Are you schizophrenic? Are you depressed? Um
u and AI can do the therapy. It should be scaled infinitely in India
and it's kind of thing people may be afraid to go or embarrassed to go ask for services and there aren't enough
therapists in India to meet everybody's needs but the AI can offer it for free.
So in a way you're also saying that UBI is a inevitability. I think some form of income
redistribution by 2050 will be absolutely essential everywhere in the world.
Do you think it'll be income redistribution or will it be shoring up
the bottom part of the population? There's many ways to get there. You
could give everybody income Mhm. for not working. Mhm.
The question is where do you get that from? Mhm. There's probably another way which is my favorite way is to deflate the
economy which is what America is doing. Well, if you do excess spending, you'll
get def inflation not deflation. But if a lot of services become free,
you'll have a deflationary economy. So in my essay on AI dystopia or utopia
Mhm. I talk about in the US I believe
20 25 years from now it could be that $10,000 today uh to in 2050
buys more goods and services that you need whether it's food or housing or medical
services or entertainment or education then then $50,000 buys today
because the services will be provided provided by machines which don't inflate. Yeah. You'll have excessive production.
So deflationary prices. You're no longer constrained by inputs
to get outputs in many areas. In some areas you'll still have inputs but you'll have much
more input. Isn't the cost of a service also dependent on purchasing power? Like how
much I am willing to pay relative to Vod? Yeah. Except if there's infinite supply.
If there's an infinite supply of doctors, what do you think a doctor will cost? I think Adam Smith like you mentioned
earlier also spoke about the marginal utility of things wherein one agentic
doctor, the first one that is created and is free has X in value. The second,
the third, the fourth proportionately have lower and lower value to a point where they have no value. But overnight
if I created a billion doctors for India which is
entirely feasible what happens they become near free
the cost of computing or the cost of power to run a computer
right right same thing happens in education same thing happens in legal does the cost of comput AI ever
like your brain has a cost of compute right the amount of energy it takes to produce is an output. Let's say that
today that is far cheaper than how much a AI is taking. When do you think that
crossover happens when the cost of compute in a system becomes less? This is a complex question because at
some level the cost will decline. Mhm. But you won't take advantage in
efficiency in cost but you'll take it in more performance. M
so if everybody has a super assistant
that's a if your personal housekeeper is a PhD in every subject
that's sort of the world to imagine I know it sounds crazy but look I think the more interesting
question for your audience is what's one important question which you asked
how do you pick a job we talked about that the other question to ask is
what job should I take now and what company can I start?
Yeah. And for the next 10 years, the following is true.
Anybody in any industry not using AI will be
obsoleted by somebody who's using AI. Mhm. So if I'm an entrepreneur in India
today, I say what's my next move? Say where can I apply AI that obsoletes
the service either in cost or in performance or in quality that somebody's providing
without AI and beat them at it. I think that's the metric for every
entrepreneur. If say 10 entrepreneurs hear that and they
and there will be cans who hear that yeah 100%. And they all use the same means to
approach this problem and AI is as democratic as it is right now. Wouldn't they all 10 arrive at the
same solution? Um I think there's massive difference in
the quality of entrepreneurs and the outcome will be a result
of the quality of the entrepreneur how how they think from first principles
how strategically they think almost certainly the people who only think a year out will be obsoleted by
the people who think what do I want to build in 5 years. Mhm. Um but what can I sell next year? What
can but where do I want to head in 5 years? Swallowing is a good analogy for
entrepreneurs that I love. Imagine you want to climb Mount Everest.
Mhm. And you have two people setting out. Mhm. And one says, "I'll get to base camp."
Mhm. Then to camp one, camp two, camp three. I think there's camp four, and then the
peak, right? Um, it's not a straight path, right? Another entrepreneur says, "I'm going to
get the most revenue in year two." Mhm. Year one and year two. They won't go to
camp one uh base camp or camp one. They'll pick the highest peak that
doesn't then lead to something beyond. H the path to Everest through these camps
is very strategically picked to have the long-term vision of getting
to a uh to Everest. Most people maximize revenue for the
short term and are not thinking strategically. So the strategic entrepreneurs will do better. The
entrepreneurs who pick better employees who help them think through strategy will do better. So people selection or
team building will become the most important characteristic where the AI
technology is democratized if you believe it's democratized um which investor you pick do they have
a short-term orientation or a long-term orient makes a dramatic difference what kind of advice you get most of the
advice most entrepreneurs get is bad so if you Google 90% of venture capitalists add no value my name pops up
because I've over said this for the last 25 years. I see such bad advice being given or
short-term advice being given by investors. So picking your investors right, picking
your employees, right? Those make a huge difference when things go wrong. Do you
get scared and retract or pick a better strategy to survive and be more
strategic? Do you think from first principle? All those things are massive differentiators. I think the shortage
today is not of technology or capital. It's of great entrepreneurs who know how
to make these choices. The single most important decision an entrepreneur makes
is who's the advice to trust on what topic because they'll get advice from lots of people.
Everybody does. Most of it is not good advice. And so
I feel bad for entrepreneurs who get bad advice, but in the end they're responsible for
deciding what advice to take. It's the most important decision they make.
Do you need an entrepreneur? Then if you can model for the behavior that
successful entrepreneurs like you speak about a few often if you can model for
all their behavior and put it in a model and throw out outcomes like they were making the decision why do you then need
the entrepreneur? Um why do you need venture capital?
You know are we there today? No. Might we be there in 10 years? Maybe.
Right. Uh, one of my speculations on the internet on Twitter has been
when will the first billion dollar company that's only has 10 employees be started
or has it already started? I think that's a valid question and sometime in the next 10 years we
will see a company with a billion dollars of revenue that has only 10 employees.
Whether it's already been started or will be started, I don't know.
So, Vinod, I've been spending a lot of time with my team trying to come up with
a thesis of what sectors might do better than others as this change in the world
happens while it occurs. Some of the things that we've we've been digging data up around are things like the world
will be older and sicker and people will have lesser kids than they're having or were having 10 years ago.
When people have more time and discretionary spending power, they go back to their
innate programming of wanting to speculate. So speculative businesses might do better. Do you have thoughts on
these or opinions like this if you're wrong? On the entrepreneur side,
I look at the question who thinks from first principles. Mhm.
Who's not scared of hardship? Mhm. Because the entrepreneurial roller coaster has lots of highs and lows. Um,
and who has the fastest learning rate. Mhm.
Right. If they are fast learner, they'll adapt to the world as it changes.
And that may be the most important characteristic of an entrepreneur.
Yeah. I'm making the assumption that you're a faster learner than everyone
else here. And I want to know what you've adapted to now that I might not be seeing yet.
Well, I don't think people believe this world I'm describing. So if you look at my
AI dystopia or utopia paper paper, most of the world I'm talking about
is not something people believe. But that's natural cuz I feel like
humans are programmed to worry a lot more about fear than think
of the gain that they're getting twice as much according to Kman. But not everybody is not all
humans. And that those are the people who will do well who are optimistic about the future and
then persistent through real hardship of the ups and downs to make the passion
they have happen. Right. Like we we have a company that's
building public transit based on self-driving. Mhm.
Where the vehicles become small and personal. You don't need a DTC bus in
New Delhi. Mhm. To carry people. It can be a twoperson
pod. Mhm. That drives itself from A to B. I actually have a personal question
around this. For the last couple of years, I had come up I almost made an
assumption that mobility will move to electric from
IC fossil fuel based and I bet on everything from scooter
companies to car truck bus even a flying taxi company
but the adoption to EV in this last cycle seems to be slowing down. Do you
agree with that thesis that all vehicle all mobility will be electric in nature and if yes why is it slowing down
on land? Yes. Right. Almost certainly. Why is it slowing down the pace of ad
adoption? You know look anytime you're an incumbent you want to
slow things down. It's to your advantage that things change slowly because you adapt more
slowly. And so incumbents always do that. And there's always fits and starts. It's
never a straight line. But I can't see,
you know, the some of the US companies are slowing down. But what's happening? BYD in China is the fastest growing
company in the automotive world. Actually, even in India, a lot of companies are slowing down.
Yeah. And that may be, but that doesn't change eventually where it'll get to.
Yeah, I hope so, too. But yeah, I'm pretty certain that'll happen.
Mhm. But the more the uncertainty, the harder it is to pick the right company to
invest in. Right. Do you think energy and data centers as a business sufficient leg room and
tailwinds to be if I were 22 and starting off to spend a decade in them?
By energy I don't mean the means of generating energy. It could be fusion. It could be something else. But focusing
on energy, you know, I would say there's some combination of where your
passion is and expertise. Passion counts for more than most people think,
right? Uh because you persist through ups and downs,
and if you don't have passion, you give up. It's like you don't give up on your religion just because you had a hard
time. M uh so someone wise once said
a emotion which is a passion ceases to be a passion once you developed a clear
understanding of it. So you're not really it's very hard to
be passionate about something that you've understood. Religion could fall in that territory.
Nobody can truly understand it. And I've heard you in a in interviews
say that passion is not necessarily the pivotal
force that should define which sector you should work in. So I I think in the world of the past
I used to tell kids when the advice you get is follow your passion I would say follow your passion if
you're willing to starve and not make a living for your family. Live on a beach in a heart and stuff. I remember you saying this. Yeah. So you
can go surfing and you can absolutely go live in Hawaii and survive,
but you're not paying for a Stanford education for your kids, right?
If you're surfing. Yeah. So you have to be realistic about it may still be a good trade-off, but everybody
has to be explicit on what tradeoff they're making.
If you bet your life on being the best cricketer, you don't make it, then you're a waiter,
right? Are you willing to take a 0.0001 probability you'll be a world-class
cricketer on the Indian cricket team or and and the rest of the probability
you're a waiter? Mhm. Uh that's a choice you get to make.
Uh that used to be true. I think we will go in a world where you can pursue much
more of your passion. M I think that will change and that will where AI will free humanity to pursue
what they're interested in and to change your passion if it changes over time.
Right. My passions aren't the same from when I was 20. Yeah. Fair. In all that you're saying,
Venod, you you're coming across very optimistic and utopian about this whole thing. I know
you don't believe in bubbles per se, but as an investor, you have seen the many cycles, many more than I have.
Do you think we could be in in a bubble today and overestimating I'm not saying overestimating the
change, but the pace or the rate of change? I would make the following
differentiation. Mhm. Investment is a different thing than
building. Mhm. So when you're an investor
in by and large you're competing with other investors that have only two emotions fear and greed right and so
every time there's an opportunity rich space you get a bubble
um if you look at the dot bubble in 1998 or So
if you look at stock prices, they went up and then they collapsed and then they
normalized. Yeah. But I don't look at that world because I
don't think of myself as an investor. I say what happened to internet traffic. You can't tell where the bubble is by
looking at internet traffic. Okay. Uh the one of the original bubbles
was in the 1830s in England when railroads first came and you got
you got the right to build a railroad between two cities. You could offer scripts.
Mhm. Essentially do a stock an IPO. Mhm. Um and of course there was a huge bubble
in script prices and then a collapse. Mhm. But same thing if you look at the miles
of railroad built you can't tell when the bubble was in the 1830s.
So what is reality for you? To me the reality is internet traffic, miles of railroad build AI applications. AI
valuations isn't something I worry about but there surely will be a bubble.
uh almost certainly will be or will will be or we are in one
right uh I like to say even in 2025
most investments that are made will lose money right
most the vast majority I might even guess north of 80%. M
but more money will be made than lost. So the few things that succeed are
playing in such large markets. It's the same issue of there's 10 startups.
Mhm. One will make more money than the other nine lose in every area. of the next thousand
startups, 990
can lose money and you can still make money by investing in the right
portfolio. So I do think we will see that I do think we will see a collapse in
valuations most likely. You can't never be certain but it's such a large market we are
playing in such a large global transformation that there will be many more
opportunities than we've seen ever before and that's good news for entrepreneurs and almost certainly most
of this won't be done by large companies. Do you have a view on crypto and blockchains?
They're not allowed in India. It's a it's a world where we have seen sudden
adoption in the west and some neighbors of ours. But again, as you've seen, crypto has been a
function of politics, not of reality. You don't think?
I I think there's very different worlds of crypto.
Mhm. There's cryptocurrency very very different than the blockchain.
Mhm. The blockchain has a lot of uses. Mhm. And if you said to me, will we see
adoption of stable coins? Absolutely. It makes total sense to
adapt stable coins. Okay. Every economy should have a stable coin. The Indian government should issue
a stable coin and then great place to do it with the Aadhaar system. But don't
you think something is wrong with the premise that you didn't trust regulation
in the formal economy? So you created a blockchain outside and a crypto on top of it. Now if you denominate the stable
coin with the same dollar or the same currency, aren't you like going around in a circle?
Here's the problem. When you don't have trust
Mhm. When is the blockchain important? when you don't have centralized trust.
Yeah. Okay. I don't think distributed trust
works across borders in all areas all together. Mhm.
So the vast majority of uses of crypto are illegal stuff. Gun trades, drug
trades, uh sex trafficking, arms trades. It's the last use of crypto
or people in Argentina trying to get their money out of the country or in China people trying to get their money
out of the country. So in some places they're doing exactly what the global
economy would want them to do which the government doesn't want them to do. Um
but it's mostly illegal and then there's speculation and of course related to that fraud.
Are there good uses for the blockchain of distributed trust? Yes, we have a
company building a cell phone network based on distributed trust. Uh, everybody can contribute their own
access point. Right now, that's there's another company building Google Maps competitor
based on how much you contribute to mapping. Yeah. Like there's there's lots of good uses
for the stable coin, but there's lots of bad uses. Mhm. The problem is the bad uses
prevent the good uses and so stable coins is a currency mechanism is better
than speculation and from that lens the banking industry
will likely get disrupted sooner than later with stable coins. It would be yes.
Yeah. The cost of transaction and the Yeah. And UBI's UPI has started to do
that in India but it should be much much cheaper. And you know look
you don't need to have the whole legal system you can have software contracts for at least half the things for which
you have a legal system around contracts right so software contracts really good
use of the blockchain. Mhm. automatic settlement of the contracts financially really good use of
the blockchains. So I hope those come up specifically to your home country Venod
of India which has a disproportionately high number of IT services being
exported. I can't remember the number but somewhere around 200 billion.
What do we do? How do we become I think it's very you know BO as a
business will disappear. Yeah. Software IT services will mostly disappear. Disappear means transform
pretty radically. Whether some of those companies can transform or not will determine whether
they survive or not. What do you suspect? Will they will the incumbents transform?
Today I see them adjusting incrementally not radically.
Here's the problem, right? If I can do a system integration service for 1/5if the cost,
uh the customer will always take one. Mhm. Modular trust.
So will some of these vendors drop their prices by 5x or 80% or at least by 60%.
Uh and then expand their services. Hard to tell.
I do apologize. I have Thank you. Thank you for doing this, Veno. This was fun. Thank you for having
us. This was fun, but I'm happy to catch up sometime. Yeah, 100%. We'll do it.