You feel successful people don't gossip. Successful people actually are extraordinary at keeping secrets. They
gossip to know information. You will never see a wealthy person who's terrible at keeping secrets. The moment
second third generation who's not good at keeping secrets the wealth will go away. Were you good at keeping secrets
from childhood? I was good at keeping people's trust. Tweet that you did. Fastest way to be called stupid in life
is to have an opinion about power or politics. Why? You will notice that people who talk a lot about politics are
usually powerless in life. What is your fear today? Fear of the poor. Nobody really wants to hang around with poor people.
You've also said somewhere most Indians settle for average career.
What's the truth about discipline and ambitious? Because a lot of people think they're ambitious. Most ambitious people will never say
they're ambitious. They are just doing stuff, building stuff. They don't write all these tag words on their Twitter or
Instagram or LinkedIn. There are many people who are famous for being cringe. You won't respect them. Do you have any
insecurity?
At times, even when you're doing everything right, something still goes wrong. Like you are all ready for a
shoot, but you realize you forgot the mic. Or a teammate needs a document, but there's no one free to go drop it. These
problems slow you down. That's why I use Porto. It helps me save time and effort
by offering ondemand two-wheer and truck delivery services for all small and big things as per my needs. Their instant
pickup and reliable deliveries not only reduce effort but also bring peace of mind. And it doesn't matter if you're a
freelancer, a startup or an established company. Pis delivery and our today's
guest Kunal Sha founder of cred also agrees with this way of thinking. He doesn't just spot problems before other
people. He questions why they exist and how he can fix them. In today's episode,
he talks about what is his biggest fear right now. What is he chasing? Fame,
power, or money? Can someone build ambition like a skill? Why are we not
acceptable of failure as a society? How can a person go from being mediocre to
earning a place with an A+ crowd? And why is being a trustworthy person a huge
part of success? Watch this episode till the end and tell me in the comments what did you learn from this conversation.
Like my first big podcast I was just telling my team. Oh is that true? First I've done 50 60 episodes.
Yours was the first and I did it and I remember the first line and we put
it out in podcast as well. View podcast start. I'm nervous and you tell me.
You remember it was incredible. I I do remember but like it's it's like kudos to you
man. It is not uh it is absolutely elite athlete level achievement what you've
done. Pretty cool man. Thank you. It means a lot. No no it is it is it is what is this like credit where it's due man. This is
this is extraordinary work. Thank you so much. And and I can tell you it may look easy from outside. I know. Uh it has must
have been a nightmare getting to this place. How old are you now? I'm 28.
That's even more commendable, man. Good stuff. Thank you. Done. I'm actually happy.
I was nervous. I'm a fan more than and more than the kunala. The person I'm fan
of kunal sha the person who tweets born and brought up. I'm actually born
uh in Ahmedabad. My mom's from here but I've always been here. So my I was like raised Bangalore. Bombay. No Bombay only.
Okay. Bangalore is only less Indian. Yeah. It's just that I never got like
good at it. Okay. Uh I can speak uh it's not that I can't speak Hindi but I know that I will
struggle with words. You think in English? That's a good question.
I don't know what language I think in but you read and consume everything in English. H no I I do
consume in multiple languages. It's just that I don't know what language do I think in
become a I think it's become a mixture now. Okay.
Is it work?
I don't know. I maybe I don't I don't have conversations with myself
when I'm thinking. Okay. I'm usually just as a triggers then I go
externally. That's a good question. Wow. Maybe I've stopped.
Wow. I'm trying to think on which language I'm thinking. I'm not able to. I think it's reached into some kind of a
like languageless thinking approach now. It's just more of like triggers and
I think it's multiple languages. Okay. Multiple things together. Yeah. It's like a full ADHD brain. So
it's a little Okay. Try to break it down for me. For example, let's say
behavior, human behavior, all of these things, right? So you said you get triggers
and it triggers something in you like okay what goes on
so I think uh step by step actually opinion comes after thinking about for
probably months and years. Uh I don't think observe and I get an opinion. I
usually I'm observing observing observing observing and pattern
and then I see the pattern being a larger pattern about something and then
I try to capture it in one sentence so that I can register it as a pattern.
Right? So example um I I observed
historically shameful
method is to convert that into pride. Okay.
Cigarettes used to be back in the day something as a shameful behavior. So they showed mal broman this that pride
all of that and then converted that into normalized behavior. Right? If you see
uh the the the recent times where we now accepted homosexuality as uh a thing, it
went through a moment of first being proud about it, right? And like if you see the the pride parades or whatever
are are a method. So you'll notice that anything about human beings that was
historically shameful or treated shamefully converted into pride and then became
normal. So it's an interesting thing that how is this pattern repeats again and again and again. So I always observe these things
and say yeah and then I see if it's true. So what I do is then I try to find
more examples and now with chat GP I could actually get 10 examples of it and then you're
like oh wow like this is again and again and again repeating so what I try to do
is find observations see if it's widespread
and then capture the essence key see because you're talking about
observation and shame M one thing which is very shameful today
is failure. When you fail in public okay and that probably is something that we
need to because I was reading bunch of your tweets that is something that we need to get
over in order to try more or maybe succeed as a society in a better way.
Right? How do you think that will happen first? Actually why do you think failure is seen as a shameful event in our country?
See the thing is the uh
first of all let's just understand how we are raised. Uh there is this
perpetual fear. Everybody is living in some version of
fear. Society fear exam fear
and and we also raise kids through fear. Okay, if you do not do this, this will happen.
Nobody will respect you. All of that stuff, right? So when your default state is fear,
failure is the dreaded,
right? Uh and that causes the society to feel safe in
some ways, right? But it makes it is very common in the emotional societies.
For example, India was completely apathy or complete
panic. Right? You will notice one more thing
that Indians when they rate an app they will do one star or five star two three
four star right because that's an emotional response. YouTube used to be
have earlier different ratings if you remember then it moved to up thumbs up and thumbs down. Yeah, right. Cuz that's how emotional
reactions are, right? I and that's like, oh, I'm a fan and
then if they don't do well, oh, we'll hate, right? And and therefore I I often say that we like to create gods out of
people and then do vis of them, right? And that's how we feel okay about
things, right? So I think what happens is failure part, right? comes from what do
we celebrate? Right? Uh now risky behavior
historically resulted in you being left out in the society and the society had no way to
bring you up or whatever and you would be like treated as somebody who has bad judgment. risk simple simple for example let's say
our movement as a society from saving account to fixed deposits to investing
in mutual funds to investing in stocks is a journey right and you will see that different
communities in different societies for example business families had a very different relationship with money
because risk was innate to you notice that they were the earliest to adopt the
riskier part of life true right but when you see younger people they are now adopting riskier faster because
their household is safe. For example, you did not have to think about
fair. So your failure ability or your risk appetite changed materially. the next
generation will be significantly much more attuned to failure because the failure doesn't mean
like I have had stages of life where I did not have money to eat right and you are literally I would go I remember like
buying chana on credit chana singh on credit
right so that has a very different tolerance sometimes losing everything also makes
you very good at failure Right. If you notice somebody that
because it's so close to zero. Yeah. So you will see that people who have
less money are doing more riskier behavior right like for example people who are
getting caught in investment scams this that they're like okay small money.
M so I think failure comes in a mixed thing but culturally we are a collectivist society collective society
simp right when we were you would remember
that your grandparents would tell you that and we used to wear the same shirt right
but now imagine trying to tell three cousins you're going to wear the same clothes it's not okay they have become
individuals now right so as we move from let's say a non-indiv individualistic
society to individualistic we will get to more failure understanding choices and so on
and so forth but there's another thing that is happening which is preventing failure again
is people fearing their social media followers
right that let's say you are a young person and you have like managed to get 2,000 followers in your head you're
already a celebrity Raj you will remember when you had 50,000 followers and you would get 40
likes, your reaction would be the same as today at millions of followers,
right? The the threshold has changed. Yeah. Right. But unfortunately,
we get shaped by our audience, which is a problematic loop. Right? For example,
when I tweet, I am not thinking about likes because if I was thinking about likes, I know exactly how to get them. I
can say
emotions capture you'll get consistently but I write for myself right so you will see from a 50 likes to
a 50,000 likes coming together it's not consistent because I don't care about the audience but what you'll notice is
that eventually everybody starts caring and if you're a young person you start thinking about the 2,000 followers and
what will they like what will they judge me for what are they going to think
about me? And then your personality starts getting shaped through the views of these 2,000 people that you would
otherwise not care about. So that's becoming a problematic loop for it's a very big trap because everybody
is like trying so hard to differentiate now right
when I was growing up social media pre- internet when I was in college in my first year second year internet has not
become big yet like a group of 10 you could be different in that right jeans
right difference. But now when you are being trying to be
different with 2,000 followers, you have to find different way to be aesthetic. You have to find a different
way to be cool. Travel to unique places that nobody has been to. Capture the
same thing differently, right? Go to some music festival, but take a very different clip of that music festival so
that you feel cool. or you are closer to the stage or not closer to the stage to to signal that okay I'm in the more
important place or not right uh uh capturing unique food so that you feel that I try different
things and so on and so forth so this deep need to differentiate is frying
people's brain right right like for example you are going and
getting Vijay Malia on the podcast is your breaking out of differentiation right it's a it's a thing that is needed
Because how would people find that? Okay. What is the thing difference that you bring to the table? Why do you think it's a bad thing?
It's not a bad thing. It it's just very taxing. It's not bad thing. I'm just saying first of all, one thing we should avoid
Raj is that categorizing things in good and bad. It's the simplest form of doing this
this we should never do that. Okay. Uh there is no no such thing as good and bad. Everything has lots of nuance.
Let's say if you have the capability to differentiate, by all means do it,
right? But if you do not have the capability and you're trying very hard, it is very mentally taxing. But don't
you think if you keep trying to do that, maybe you'll find a differentiator and
that will act as a proof for you in one area of life which will help you in other areas of life as well. Yes and no. uh eventually what you will
realize is that 99.9% of humans have non- differentiated
but they are now being told by all these people that you have to be different right and therefore we capture try to
capture every trend and say okay I'm going to be this and if you look at fashion cycles used to
earlier take multiple years to get outdated now they get outdated very quickly right and and what we call as
fast fashion is nothing Oh, somebody wore this. Now it's everybody doing it. Now it's gone in months. In weeks.
Yeah. You you saw the whole labubu hype kind of go and crash in weeks.
When I was growing up, some of these trends would last for a decade before it disappears. So we are hyperconnected.
So the cycles are moving very fast and that is very hard for a lot of people to keep up. people like feel brain fried that like
how do I keep up to this thing? So a lot of people choose to not showcase themselves at all. They become observers
because they just accept that I can't keep up. Right. I'm I'm sure you feel overwhelmed that this is like like I saw
in your office you put numbers of all these things that you want to achieve and it's hard. It's hard. It's not easy to constantly
keep breaking out and doing stuff. Obviously you have to be driven differently to do this but not everybody
is driven differently. What I'm saying is that that comparison right that oh I
will never be this scale I will never be that right for example when I used to do
my version of cred curious I never cared about views I was very curious earlier I used to do this privately for
my team then my team is like let's make it public and it became popular but I didn't care about the views because I
was genuinely doing it from my own thing but the moment you start thinking about those metrics versus own curiosity
things change right because now you know exactly
what if you lose yourself in this what if you realize that learning now I'm
getting whatever will get me applause right when a great actor
starts doing stuff that will get gags and laughs from people
because it gets views it gets me eventually they feel that void that I've
stopped being a great actor. So like this is called the panding to the audience like you eventually getting
to a place where oh my god this is who I've become. Yeah you know I'll talk about me a
little bit and then we'll go back to the fear conversation. So what has really helped us is us not
bothering about views during the conversation. perfect like that and I can tell you by far every member in the
team we know this when we prepare for a podcast when we choose the guest and when we do the podcast we give zero
views we're like okay sometimes we prepare 500 things and we end up talking about none
because we're just curious and we are in the conversation want to learn that has really helped us that's good
so that the only objective is can we
learn and understand something out of this. Oh, that's perfect. As long as you do this consistently like till now in every
conversation we've done this what we do is once the conversation is out
like once this is done like this job is done then we try to think okay now how do we make best out of whatever we've gotten
the process of views doesn't start before we've shot the podcast perfect that's actually quite cool uh I
think one topic to touch upon on fear is uh best People convert fear into
curiosity. What do you mean? Explain. See, everybody has fear.
Guaranteed. Agreed. Some people have a very different reaction to fear. Most people have a
reaction, shut down, go in shell, not act. Small percent of people convert
their fear into curiosity.
Right? Let's say people who do adventure sport, are they not fearful? They absolutely are.
But there is this curiosity that takes over. They convert that fear into this
weird curiosity. Yeah. And it appeals to them. That risk, that
curiosity appeals to them so much and they continue to do well. Right.
Right. And uh that actually allows them to propel
forward in life. All right. So converting fear to curiosity where where you're like, "Oh my god, let me see."
Like there is this weird thing that attracts you, risk attracts you, right?
Uh like a lot of people like talk about Elon Musk and say that he has no ability to process risk. And it's probably true.
the kind of stuff that he constantly does, you're like, I can't believe that the guy is doing this, right? But there
is this natural attraction to risk with judgment, right? See, if you're just
attracted to risk, you can also be called a gambler.
But the moment you combine the judgment ability with risk tolerance
or risk attraction, you will see those guys do well. True. Do you al don't you feel most
people who are successful quote and go in different different ways don't you
feel they are more driven out of fear of inefficiency or fear of
uh fear of not being at a place where they come from or where they are today.
So it's mostly the fear which is driving them to change. So in some cases fear is
actually really helping people to move forward not in terms of attraction or curiosity but just in feel of I don't
want to be suffocated by staying in that one place. I think uh it's
not always fear they are escaping they are just escaping.
So there are different things people escape. Okay? Right? People are escaping their trauma, people are escaping their
circumstances, people are escaping their fear, people are escaping their identity, people are escaping their
country, people are escaping their society, people are escaping their relationships.
Escaping drives people, right? Uh fear is just
one of them. But you will notice one thing that uh
most successful people are some version of OCD. They are repeating this pattern
again and again and again and again and again without any drive coming from outside. Yeah.
Right. They are self fueling mechanism. They don't need motivational speakers by the way.
True. Right. You will never see driven people driven by motivational speakers. Right. So almost a reverse trend. People
who need motivational speakers are unlikely to be driven, right? Uh and and
which is if you think about it is a business-breaking line to make. But the thing is that people who are escaping
something, they don't have time for motivational speakers. They just want to just be at it at it.
At it at it, at it. Imagine the best athlete. Imagine imagine the best entrepreneur. They're just at it.
They're escaping. They're escaping their their they they're escaping their irre relevance. They're escaping their
current state. They are feeling inadequate. Right? I have met many many
successful people. Everybody is like achieve life like like I have done nothing. I
have become irrelevant. I have done this. I have not understand this. I I have no understanding of AI. I'm this and that. They are just like driven in a
very weird manner. Yeah. Right. And they're always escaping something, escaping their status quo
mostly, right? And what drives them is the OCD, which is obsessive compulsive
disorder almost, right? And now we say these words in form of disease and and
illnesses. Uh uh but the thing is it's a state. Yeah. Right. If you see ever and I would
I would encourage like a lot of people to find a way to observe an elite athlete training
like you will see something very different, right? What have you observed for example their consistency to do
something for 3 4 8 hours a day which is physically taxing
right and there is nobody is no nobody's enjoying that nobody's enjoying that
you can see but that drive to just be at it at it at it and almost that they
can't live without that don't you think that's fear of not being able to live up to potential or maybe fear of being
average it's not always fear some people driven through their trauma. There is no fear. They're just traumatized and they want to escape that
trauma. They want to escape that feeling of being alone sometimes. Sometimes people are workaholic because if they
left alone to themselves, they'll be fearful about meeting themselves. Yeah.
Right. So you have to understand that these things are driven from multiple places. Uh uh sometimes you're also in
the company of driven people and that drives you. Right? uh we are we are always the
average of five people we spend time with. You believe by absolutely believe it right and
therefore a lot of people who are growing find it hard to keep the same friends
now that's a problematic line for most Indians
and we are very fearful of that line. Yeah. But that is likely to happen. Why do you think we are fearful that when
because we are a collectivist society that like we have to meet everybody's expectation. See back before social
media it was impossible to keep up with all the friends. You move to a different city somewhere else. You move to a different
country something else this now with social media like you are connected to everyone
sub happy birthday right earlier it was impossible to do. We
would evolve into the circles we were spending time with. Yeah. But social media has this weird thing of
keeping us grounded to the same realities.
But it's hard to keep up because you only have 24 hours. M, right? Do people tell you what that you have changed or you have
grown or you have I'm sure they do. But I have a very selective filter on what I hear in life.
Uh uh because for me I'm always going to be
there for people who need me. M but my time is something that I protect because
that's the currency you and I or anybody else has very less of right often
sometimes it's easier to help somebody need something but giving time consistently right I think we have to be
all in environments which is constantly growing us right uh for example the reason I am not
in favor of work from home which is a very problematic topic
is all the growth happens in the company of people you keep
not about working somewhere if you work from home and you chose to be around
five really smart people at your home who are working along with you I'm all for work from home
where you will discuss something at lunch discuss something at dinner discuss something while playing a game
with them uh and you're constantly making each other better then by all means work from home.
M but if you are going to be in a place where I'm avoiding commute, I'm avoiding
this rent.
You've made a terrible decision for your life because remember all the times we
learned was in the company of great people, right? And you're like, "Oh my god." Then we reflect on what these guys
said or she said something so interesting or he said something so interesting and I'm like, "Wow." Like it
hit me. Yeah. Right. And that becomes your system. True. But now I don't know uh you spend more
time with reals and shots uh than really good people
and therefore now you meet almost everyone they are like the last 10 reels that they have watched. like that's their average personality right now.
That is not good because if you ask them
there's no substance. Yeah, that is so true. That is so so
true. You know, you tweeted something about it. You said mediocre people often
have a clear tell. You'll often see them hanging out with other mediocre people
probably because the A+ folks avoid them. Now when you said that most of the
people are average of the five people they hang out with and if you come from
a mediocre background and you are a mediocre person in how do you break out of this? How do you go to the A+
category because A+ folks are avoiding them? Yeah. First of all A+ folks feel they're
mediocre. I don't think if the mediocre people
feel they are mediocre. That's number one. Number two is
it's a relative term right there is no categorization plus a mediocre right it's a spectrum like and we all know
yeah there's ranking system that exists on human beings for example uh if we have to rank kunal and raj on understanding
of content you would be like miles ahead of me right on on some topics I would be
miles ahead of you and that's what humans are right for example if both of us have to think about who's the best
person to understand ours maybe it's not us it's a friend of ours who's very very good at it and they are miles ahead so
there's a spectrum in each of these things but anybody who's excellent at
anything is not accidentally excellent at anything nobody's gifted to be oh I am good at
cars or I'm good at content right it happens because they are obsessive
about this and get there right now if you're in a company of people who obsess
about anything, you learn something from them. True. You meet a musician, you meet an
athlete, you you meet a startup entrepreneur, you meet somebody who's building great content the way you're
doing and you'll always learn, right? And is that the relationship? What I'm
saying is that if a relationship is not teaching you something
but are only validating you, then growth is limited. H
how do you find these people who teach us they always exist uh I think people who make us uncomfortable are a good set
that's a good right because if you think they are right but it offends you that's the
exact person to spend time with but what we do is we judge the tone of their feedback I don't judge tone of
feedback of anyone anybody who mocks me or takes a shot at me or whatever and if
they have some good lesson I I will only remember the lesson. I will not remember what the tone was and
I will not even remember who the person was. But people have so I often say this but
I'll repeat it like people have substance and their own perception about themselves.
It's easiest to offend people. Yeah. Right.
Right. But this gap exists only when you have not improved this part
right uh for for example uh if you told
me that kunal you are so old right yeah I am older to you so it's a fact how can
I be offended by that but a lot of people get offended by these words
right I often say that oh kunal so if somebody calls you overweight but that's a act on all mathematical ways at the
right answer but if I am like cancel
so I think we have reached a point where we have taken so much pride in being offended the good news is you put
content out there of being offended you get too many likes so you think it's a great quality to
have so you see so many people on social media
are per perpetually putting their outrage out there of being offended because multiple people like I also
agree with this and then they want to be part of that tribe. Yeah. But the really good people
or people who are growing people or compounding people have no time to mock someone
or be offended by someone. They're too busy achieving what they
need to achieve. They don't care. Right? Like I often say that if you bark back at a dog,
are you a dog? It's as simple as that. You've you tweeted something on this.
All mockery is accepting lower status. H Yeah, it's it's funny, right? But we
will never mock somebody who's lower status than
us. Imagine you are meeting with friends and you are
mocking your staff who drives you. Have you ever seen that behavior?
But we all get together and mock our bosses, mock politicians,
mock somebody because it allows people to create a tribe.
But that's a very cheap way to build bonds. But most people do that and they cherish
it. Why? But most people are also not successful. No, you feel successful people don't gossip.
They they gossip for a very different intent. They gossip to know information. Interesting. Or improve their intelligence about
something. It's not their need. Yeah. Successful people actually are
extraordinary at keeping secrets. You will never see a wealthy person
who's terrible at keeping secrets. Agreed. You will say
transfer. They become the hoarder of asymmetric insights and therefore you create trust
with them. Think about all your friends that you say.
You can't trust them. They might be fun, entertaining to go out with, but you would not share very intimate
information with them that can be damaging to you. Yeah,
that is so true. You share certain insights with people who you trust and
who can keep secrets and they're often the people who are at the higher status
than you or maybe in the group or are likely to be more successful in the future as well.
Likely to be more. ucing people who are able to keep secrets at a young age. See uh
are likely to be more successful in future. So let's just let's just break the all the people who are very successful or
wealthy at least are going to be somebody who are extraordinary at keeping secrets.
Right? Which means they don't feel the need.
Yeah. Right. Most people the way they remain interesting is to gossip. M
content and they have to tell people about it and that's how they remain interesting right some people you share
something with them you know they hold it now I'm not saying that this cohort is
likely to become successful because there are other factors that come into being successful but you will rarely see somebody who's successful who doesn't
have this trait okay no fair so all wealthy people are good
secret keepers That's what you're saying. So it's like a first level. First first
in fact what you will see is that the moment second third generation who's not good at keeping secrets the wealth will
again go away. It's like wealth. Yeah. Wealth is like flows forward.
Have you seen that? Yeah. You will see it. Observe it next time. Like the second third generation is not
good at keeping secrets. The money will flow through them. Were you good at keeping secrets from childhood? I think I was good at keeping
people's trust. Explain. Uh when people share secrets and they
can feel the trust that that was not going to be used against them, you become trustworthy.
So it's not about secrets, it's about being more trustworthy. Yeah. Most wealthy people will always have a
strong correlation of being trustworthy. Right? And I'm not saying they are generally trustworthy, but they are
specifically trustworthy. For example, banks will trust them, investors will trust them, employees will trust them,
right? So, uh I think I was always the person who people knew that the gossip
would not move forward. I would never encourage it. I would
never uh uh uh like I would treat this as a mark of respect that somebody
shared something with me. Yeah. It's a little bit like being a goldsmith. H
that if people are storing gold with you then it's you have to be somebody that they can be
trusted with. But what's the difference? Let's say you you told me you had this when you were
pretty young. People of your age, people in your group might not have this trait. What was the
difference? What do you think is different? I think it probably helps to be an introvert. Like you're not trying to be interesting. But a lot of people try to be
interesting. I know that's one of the things that society rewards also. Exactly. But I'm saying that if that
being interesting comes by being the superconductor of information,
right? It's unlikely to be creating respect. You'll be liked. Agreed. So I think the key metric is
people are mostly trying to be liked, not respected. All social media has made
likes happen. Respect. Why do you think people are people want
to be liked more than they want to be respected? Because when you ask people, everybody will say they want to be respected, but their actions tell you
otherwise. It's about how we shape the society, right? Uh respect is a long-term
behavior, like is a short-term behavior, right? Can I do one thing and be respected? No.
But I can make a nice joke and I can be liked by your entire office. Yeah. So the world is becoming more and
more short-term and less and less long-term. Why? Cuz the societyy's rewarding that right
now. But every now and then the society corrects itself. Okay? Then we realize, oh we can't be
short-term. We have to become long-term. Right? Imagine the human invention of
monogamy, relationships, marriage came from realizing, oh my god, we can't be short-term.
It's not good for society. Look at religion. Every religion only does one thing.
Makes you not do short-term behavior and make you do long-term behavior
across any religion. Yeah. Tribal religion to organized religion.
Any country, any state. Don't do short-term behavior.
Do long-term behavior. So that's the core thing every human
realizes. Okay. And how do you think religion got invented? Because they must have seen that humans are not doing
well, right? For example, do not steal.
Because it causes a cycle of retribution and destruction, violence, death, all of
that stuff. So, do not steal is be more long-term.
In fact, every human behavior that we consider as bad behavior is nothing but a short-term behavior.
Now where does the short-term behavior come from? Right? We have two brains. The neoortex and amydala. Amigdala is
the fight orflight animal brain as we call it or the lizard brain which is designed for short-term. In
fact, all the joyful stuff that we experience is coming from the short-term brain. Yeah.
Right. Being long-term makes us successful, makes us wealthy,
makes us wise, makes us achieve long-term success, makes us healthy, builds our muscle, builds our
reputation. All of that comes from there. In fact, that is the brain that tells the short brain to behave.
Yeah. Calm down. And it keeps getting strengthened the more and more you do it, practice it. But the thing is that
the more we encourage the smaller brain to become the boss
and therefore you'll see people who have not very long-term about things, they are either very happy or very sad.
Yeah. They have like extreme emotions, right?
But people who are more neocortex oriented, they will say they're more balanced in both the situations.
In fact, you will see that a lot of the uh stimulants or or or rather uh
sedatives that we have are to suppress the neoortex. We are happier and giggly when we have
alcohol, right? And that's exactly what it is
to suspend the long-term mind. And therefore, we are likely to do more short-term
behavior when we are drunk. or under some kind of a influence uh influence.
So overall society is rewarding this. How do we change it? It's very hard. Uh society will have to
realize the mistakes of it. It takes decades sometimes and we'll realize oh my god what have we done then we become slightly more
conservative about things. We become more long-term about things. When did you realize that you need to be long-term not short-term?
uh I think uh when you see like for example when the
family went through financial crisis and uh I realized which short-term behavior
caused this for the whole family right uh you just start thinking that you need to
do more something more long-term in nature right and what I realized that what was long-term is skill reputation
trust uh wisdom wisdom uh wealth, health
uh and and just thinking more and more about these things, right? Uh mattered early on in life because
I was never having the luxury. I have no I had no money to hang out with young friends and go for a party or being able
to afford a trip. Like I didn't have the money for anything. Uh uh I probably
must have taken a trip abroad for fun after many many many years.
probably I was your age uh or slightly younger uh when I had done a lot of work
to build first uh uh something and I think that for example we were thrown
from our houses to ach
loan before I traveled abroad for a vacation but the younger generation is doing the exact opposite
because they have the support of somebody's house that they know at least my parents house is there or I can go
back to their house or whatever. I didn't have any of that. So, I think sometimes not having anything long-term
forces you to become long-term. You said most of us who are driven,
they're escaping something. Were you escaping something? Yeah. escaping fear of uh
poor uh uh see when you're also poor when you suddenly become poor in your family you will start seeing everybody
distancing from you friends family nobody really wants to hang around with poor people
uh especially if you have become poor through your own choices uh and like people try to keep you there
but like you know that they don't like want to really hang with you. Yeah.
And that drives you that okay you cannot be that right and you're escaping that
in some ways but I think it becomes eventually the OCD that you want to continuously escape only right you're always thinking about I need to escape
even more and further and further and further and it drives you so what is your fear today or what is
escape what is escaping today I think my my fear always remains in that if I don't understand things
for me not understanding how things work and
becoming better at things that I don't have an understanding of is what drives me. Fear of irrelevance that I what if I
don't understand the younger generation, right? Like what if I don't see what
they're doing and and understand their patterns for example? Uh how is AI going to shape
our behaviors? I'm very very interested in that. Right? Uh because this is a
norm. M we we not realize it but maybe a large
majority of people already having some version of relationship with their AI. Yeah.
And that shapes humans different. For example, let's say you are a male or female and
you have a more fulfilling relationship with your child.
What if you find human relationships to be suboptimal?
Highly possible. What will happen to human society then?
Like if you don't think about these things, you're unlikely to do something about it or be aware of it before it
happens. See, I'm if you reduce if you have the mindset of having less and less surprises about life,
it'll require you to constantly be aware about things. But why is this need to
understand this thing? Why is this need to predict or try to find a problem which is not there yet
but might become a problem? What drives you to actually
relationship? I think what will you do with it? For example, can you build a business with
it? Can you understand something? Can you create something? Uh for example,
when we made our ads for the first time and they broke the standard format of how ads were done and credit ads became
the standard of doing things, we realized that people were done with the
same format of ads, right? And you had to do something that makes them come
awake and notice and want to watch it without being interrupted
and content versus ad that mindset. So you need to understand that the world is
getting bored right for example I had written something multiple years ago that people will find it very hard to
watch movies because they addicted to short dopamine cycles now and I had
tweeted like many years ago that we almost feel like a meditation to watch a movie now right and to
predict that trend and say right so for example the new format of short drama is taking off right now it
nothing Not people watching a movie with 25 breaks.
If you ask an average person how many times did you pause to finish a Netflix movie? The answer may be 2530.
So there anyway is watching a movie like a short series. Yeah.
Right. To continuously watch without being distracted without being on your phone for 2 hours
is getting harder. Almost impossible. In fact, I'm worried how movies are going to do well now
because people find it very very hard. In fact, I know that multiple OTTs are telling
content creators that please make content that people can watch along with being on their phone. Yeah.
So, how do we make money from this now? So, I see movies becoming grander
then it affords for you to pay attention. So the movie budgets have to go crazier and you make a superhero movie and fantasy mythology movie and
like you have to really raise the level. A regular story that used to be big hits
before unlikely to work now. So you love to understand these patterns
and makes sense make sense of them and then make sense of them. So maybe
it'll turn into an insight for you to build a business or it's just awareness
about society and it gives you a oh I understood it I understood it is a bigger kick
okay right but just understand but it's not that for example when we started our chat I was asking you about how you're
doing things and not that I'm going to ever come and compete in the business but I have to understand
how are you getting it right if you have managed to get from x amount of revenue to a thousandx of that revenue right
now. What do people like? What do people
share? What causes a reaction? What makes people uh uh come back again and
again? What kind of people come? I have to understand and I do that not for you. I will meet a
musician and ask the same question. I would ask Rahul Dravid the same question when I've met him.
What are the new athletes all about? Right. and and uh uh and I'm I'm I'm
always asking on why people's world work the way they work. Yeah, I remember you asked me first time
as wellm
like all of these I remember that you do this. Do you think it's the primary
trait or a fundamental trait for a lot of young people to become successful? No. Asking questions?
No. I I think uh understanding things
is more important than asking questions. One method of understanding things is asking questions.
Okay, there are other ways to do that. For example, now chat GPT is a much more efficient method to understand things
and your medium of understanding things may be that but sometimes counter questioning for
example there are different ways to use charg for example if I ask JPD that
please rate me on 10 on the quality of questions I've asked you so far amongst all the people most likely it will tell
you up to amazing but if I asked,
"Can you tell me what are the five ways I can ask better questions compared to
the top 1% users on this platform? Help me identify the gaps." Much better
answer. One is validation seeking. Second is feedback seeking,
growth seeking. Growth seeking, blind spot seeking.
It's extraordinary at blind spot seeking. For example, if you meet somebody uh for an interview and you
convince them that I would like to record this interview for my own learning and recorded the whole thing
and and ask the AI that what are the 10 things I sucked at? It
might tell you question.
You have this anxiety to answer quickly which you will not observe in yourself.
I believe every single person who should have an AI auditor of their behavior
consistently. Wow. Imagine a coach. Imagine you have a 400 IQ
tool in your pocket or grammar fix.
How do you use it? Give me one example. No, this is one example. So what I what I do is I I put
something that helped you something that gave you feedback and you fixed on it and you multiple things
all the time. All the time observing my interviews. I'll say did I do a good job of interviewing?
Did I actually ask the right questions? Did I listen to the candidate or interrupted them too much?
Job interview. Yeah. When I'm interviewing people, then uh I have asked uh to uh observe
something that I have written as a strategy and say what are the things that I've not thought about.
uh I have used it uh in manners where I've said that uh I am let's say I'm this MBTI I'm add
can you convert this document for somebody who is this
MBTI and this add and make me readable for me amazing nice it makes it exciting for you to read the
same document nice uh can I have done things where I would
I have a hypothesis and put the hypothesis out there. For
example, I'll tell you one recent example. I had a feeling that all the countries
that had extreme weather became great at planning
and people who do not have extreme weather are not good at planning because extreme weather forces you to have
long-term thinking, right?
countries. Then I noticed that it those countries
also have a very unique trait of not wearing wide range of colors.
So people with extreme countries, extreme weather do not have very colorful color palette in their clothes.
So when you go to countries let's say Russia you will see like only six shades
but if you go to a place in Gujarat vibrant colors
in their shirts and and then I I noticed that
uh further that they are also le less likely to be emotionally
expressive countries with extreme weather extreme weather and people who have less colors. And so I made this compound
hypothesis and put it out there in charge GPT. I said, can you rate this on 10 and tell me five
ways this may be wrong? Then it helped me sharpen.
This is looking like 8 on 10, two on.
And then I made one more hypothesis that it also makes them more wealthier. So high per capita comes from countries who
are better at planning. Interesting. But in the past per capita income was
higher in countries which were more resourceful and had less extreme weather.
So if you go back in history all the countries with less extreme weather
were more prosperous because that causes the agricultural yield to be better.
And all the technological innovation and innovation which drives planning and efficiency
came in countries with extreme weather long-term versus short-term.
Mhm. And what I noticed is that many languages of countries with
non-extreme weather does not have the word efficiency in their language.
Give me an example. Which country? All the countries which are not extreme weather one example put it
many Asian countries does not have word efficiency does not exist in their language
Hindi man
and there's a human thing that we only act or feel a word when we know the word
or it exists in our vocabulary.
Very interesting. This is how you use chat GB. Yeah. Wow. I'm impressed. Like this is so
cool. I'm going to do that. Pretty sorted. Okay. Coming back to the
conversation of we were talking about short-term, long-term escapism,
fear, right? I want to ask you is there
because you're talking also about wealthy countries and weather extreme countries and all of these combination.
It's just a very basic question which is coming out of my head and it's like why do you think most people they work
really really hard in whatever country they are still they remain poor?
H it's a great question. Um
uh
I think um the frame to apply is what
does your work solve? Right?
If I'm a surgeon that is extraordinary doing bypass surgery,
I work for a few hours and I make a lot of money
because the problem I solve is almost life and death. Yeah.
With a very high chance of somebody dying. But let's say I did some work which does
not solve a large problem. In fact, then it's unlikely to create more
wealth. So what does it solve and what do people
value at? For example, let's say both of us get together
and build a company that's going to solve
um
challenge in a healthy manner. We found a technology or a medication or some
ayurdic medication just say you'll
become very wealthy very very wealthy because it's a problem that people care a lot about.
But let's say we build something that is
by the way we'll become very wealthy but very hard problem. M
Sometimes we'll have to give 15 20 years with no chance of success
to solve that problem to solve this problem and therefore it will not achieve anything. But let's say you
are are doing a lot of hard work and
I don't know uh providing um XYZ service that and you
could be easily replaced. Nobody cares,
right? you will not be able to make more money,
right? Uh and therefore,
it's about what comes out of that achievement. For example, software
engineering was very hard to learn and made a lot of money. A lot of people did software engineering because of that. But let's say if AI comes around and
makes the tops of an engineer 10x more productive which means they don't need as many people that profession may not
make the same amount of money but for some people it make them crazy amount of money. Same thing for doctors.
Some doctors will become 10x
using AI, right? So we have to think that way. Uh
if hard work resulted in stuff, right? For example, let's say let's talk about your podcast, right?
A lot of people are doing it. Exactly. In fact, I I firmly believe there are more people building podcasts than
listening to podcasts. Uh uh it's a joke that a long time. Yeah. But I I do believe that because it it almost
feels like a good status thing to do, right? Um but what you do to get you to the top
50 in the world is very different, right? Nobody knows
exactly what are the things that you do and sometimes you can't even explain
I if you ever started a course on how to build successful podcast I can tell you
it'll not be successful because you can't even explain many things that you've internalized
in yourself for example I invest in startups I start I write a book on how to
pick good ideas to invest in. I will not be able to explain it.
Why? It's so internalized that you don't even know what the lessons are.
So, how can somebody build this? How can they learn? Constant iteration. Think of yourself as an app.
If you are an app, apps have two things, features and bugs.
You have to enhance the features.
successful cycle of releasing the apps is much faster.
But isn't it driven out of then public validation? Not really. It's about truth seeeking on
what is causing what. How do you differentiate between truth seeeking and validation? Because let's say you are for example if you ask
people do you want to be healthy answer 100 or 100.
Yes. Are you doing something about being healthy 100 actually?
So you to look at data and instincts
because so many health startups fail because motivation.
See wealth happens when you take something that people are truly motivated by and make it easy to do.
Wealth gets destroyed when you keep making something easy that nobody cares about.
And that's the thing. So most people remain poor because they
are a not working on making themselves irreplaceable
and b they are not creating something so valuable which a lot of people are
motivated to get easily or will pay a lot for.
How much would you pay for a a health situation of your family member improving versus couering from Bombay to
Bangalore. So there's a range huge difference.
There's a range. Think about human motivation as some gangotri
at the core. It's basically simple.
uh we want health, prosperity, status
for ourselves and our family members. All the things we do can be answered in this. Yeah.
Right. And businesses are nothing but building dams on each of these streams.
Sometimes the stream is small, sometimes the river is bigger, sometimes you're building at Gangotri. For example, when
I told you about the height thing
and they may end up making tons of money, not necessarily. They they might find a very differentiated thing to do within
that, right? For example, nobody's caring about that sector. Let's say you are, I don't know, becoming extraordinary building avocado
and nobody has figured it out yet and you are realizing it's a big trend
and you become the 80% market shareholder of avocado. So it became big. It's a regular avocado
but k of a product that people are willing to pay higher price for in a way which makes you more money.
Correct. So it's it boils down to just what's your differentiator or what do people value? What do people
value and are they valuing it at that point of time or it's likely to sustain?
For example, let's say you do something that is a hype. It'll die away.
And how do you identify what's hype and what's something that's going to stay forever? Because what are people doing it for
temporarily demonstrating status or something that people will truly value? For example, we talked about labubu as
like a temporary way of showing that I am part of a unique status tribe. Mhm. Or height, which is a long-term
sustainable thing, right? Health. But again, height is also status. Not necessarily. It's going to be
long-term. This will not be a long-term thing cuz something else will become a trend. Height will not replace in the trend.
No, I get that. But what I mean the ultimate emotion which is getting solved is status. Ultimately, everything is either of
those three things I told you, right? It's a some version of social status, prosperity, and personal wellbeing,
which is health. So, what's going to give you long-term this or short-term? Short-term of this. That's the way to think about it. But there are nuances to
that. For example, let's say I built a lamp company, right? It gives
a status in some ways, but uh it makes me feel that I'm a unique person. Let's
say I have a nice coaster over here. It feels different. Uh
taste test whatever but with enough people will care about it
right but if I was doing a bypass specialization less people will care about because it's not a everybody's
going through that so it's about multiplying the utility value of something and the audience size
and their net worth to be able to afford it
okay so this is basic that People need to understand, right? Another basic is a lot of people want to
get rich. Mhm. A lot of people also admire and worship people with money, but they secretly
pray also for their downfall. Not everywhere. Most in I'm talking about let's say a country like ours
because you have also again some I think you've tweeted somewhere
right. So people are somewhere they worship rich people yet they're praying
for the downfall or they enjoy the downfall. Why? The thing is uh there are two ways. There are two ways to achieve status,
right? Either I get ahead of someone or I wait for
them to come to my level. It's very simple, right? So when we see
some people who look to be extraordinary to become ordinary like us, it feels us it
just gives us a sense of relief.
Right? For example, we like to know gossip about their personal life so that we feel
in fact a lot of successful people also demonstrate.
So that you feel like
but why do they wait for them to fall or like at least find faults? It's it's not about that. It's just that
you have to find something that gives you relief in some ways, right? You feel
they're not special and it's okay. See what I'm saying is that
people who are trying to be successful don't care about these things. Right?
If somebody has done something and achieved something and even if they become ultimate
failures, the lessons are still invaluable.
So are you interested in lessons or not, right? If you're interested only in
their final status, then we are less likely to be interested in the lessons of that.
And therefore is the case in most of the Yeah. But we can shape that. For example, I've often mentioned that we've
built no successful documentaries or movies about successful achievers on
what their journey was, especially entrepreneurs, right? But we have movie about every scamster,
gangster, all of that because it's exciting. Can we just make it more powerful by
just demonstrating these stories? Right. For example, you'll feel lot more content about
western entrepreneurs. You will see story about everyone. Yeah. And we read their autobiographies and all of that.
But and and that often tells me that
um that
we might change that, right? Maybe someone like you will produce a movie and uh or make a documentary series and
you might identify a new customer need that the current world is not identifying
and create that because uh if that starts happening
we will automatically get really uh changing of what we care about
right we will care less about oh this guy up down whatever we just care about
Yeah, this is a good lesson. For example, if you read a story about how
Spotify founder convinced music labels to join forces, it's a great lesson.
solve a difficult problem
because we are not we are we are more interested in content than being successful. No, so stories are more
interesting. Why do you think it's like that? Because successful
entertainment. Yeah. Because how are we respected in our community by being more interesting sometimes?
Going back to the Yeah. We often call successful
and somebody who comes and say, "Oh, I went on a date or
I often wonder by the way sometimes that who are in perpetual new relationships
often are trying to be interesting sometimes cuz it's new content for their friends."
You've also said somewhere uh most Indians settle for average careers. H
why why do you believe so? And why do you think Indians I I don't think I've said that we settle
for average careers. I think we we settle for settling. I think what I mean
by that is that right and it was a right decision at
some point of time because we were very poor as a country and uh stability
uh like we used to seek government jobs we still do because it provided
stability right so it made sense to chase
settlement settling but as you look at the next generation ation they are not choosing for settling
because their family is settled they're not worried about
will I have a place to stay so when when basics are taken care of we
become slightly more ambitious so you feel now it's changed do you think that's also there's a flip side to it a
lot of entrepreneurs complain about it on the podcast also they've complained that lot of young people because they don't
care about settling They are so flirtatious with their careers. They're not building their depth in any one
field. Yeah. See the thing is um
if you are not worried about how you will be taken care of long term,
it's okay to be short-term about things, right? You you are trying to jump
between different things or whatever. So for example, younger generation is lot more driven by short-term approach to
life cuz they have not seen anything long-term, right? Uh we've seen the average length of relationships also to
come down, right? Like I often hear people saying that oh I was in this relationship for 8 months
and and somebody who came from my generation or one before that it would sound absurd till somebody says
that. So I think everybody's timeline has changed, right? Mhm. Uh
and that is causing this thing of like what we feel of time
right K 8 months. So I think that is changing uh and but
career if you're not driven by oh my god I'm going to become
useless and I'm going to have no money and no family to take care of actually
all these people who are flirtatious with their career if their parents
threw them out of the house or told them you have access to any of the money that they have made or their parents were
short-term and without all their money, you would automatically become more long-term.
100% 100%. So they're they be afford they're able
to afford being short-term because because some other people around them are being long-term.
Do you think that [Music] that's what very common thing used to
happen in the west? No. Westme getting people kids out at the age of 18 was
exactly built for that reason right not just getting rid of them they were not just thrown out they were
chopped off from all financially help should we do that should we kick our kids out I don't know what we want from life no
who who decides right wrong I I don't know if you want them to become extraordinary successful yes you have to
make them starve when I use the word starve is metaphorical is be deprived of
support and resources.
Yeah. Safety nets do not create always good athletes,
right? Like uh the the the fear of almost dying is
what makes you really come alive. Yeah. You use the word extraordinary.
You want them to become extraordinary then make them starve. How to become extraordinary? If somebody who's
watching this wants to become an extraordinary person, first of all, you shouldn't have time to watch this podcast.
But I think the the the point around any big achievement comes from
overcoming many many obstacles. Overcoming many many obstacles is when
you are putting yourself out there and when you are giving it hours
attention thing. For example, anybody who's built a great physique has not got
it accidentally. Yeah. They were given extraordinary amount of attention, thinking, obsession,
focus on food, workout, sleep, like it's their being which got gets them to that particular
thing. Anybody who's got to any version of success as an entrepreneur, same anybody who's achieved any version of
these things and
they they are putting themselves out there and getting out of comfort zone,
right? See, comfort zone is a very infertile land.
Okay? But it keeps you safe.
So if you want to be extraordinary just kill extraordinary anything like I'm not
saying that you have to wealth is not the only metric I I don't know extraordinary I mean anything yeah
anything but do you think that that means it'll require for you to just kill your comfort
yeah it's impossible to be extraordinary in comfort zone what's the truth about discipline and
ambition because a lot of people want to They think they're ambitious. They say
that they're ambitious. I don't know if their actions match that or no. Mostly they don't.
Uh so what do people misunderstand about? It's cool to say you're ambitious. No.
Most ambitious people will never say they're ambitious. They are just doing stuff,
building stuff. They are just out there.
They don't write all these tag words on their Twitter or Instagram or LinkedIn.
They're just doing stuff. The need to put so many labels to who we
are. But when you ask them, they say they're ambitious. No. Will will they identify as an
ambitious person? Yes. They're not trying to tell the world they're ambitious.
Like fill their Instagram bio and LinkedIn bio with all these fancy keywords.
What do you think people misunderstand about ambition and discipline? No, I think it's uh
it's uh being it's what you are.
It's like it's not a
thing that you can a weak
Do you think it's a trait or a skill or something that people can build? Like can they turn themselves into an
ambitious person or no? I I think though
drives are very hard to get externally. You can't get in drive from external
purpose. But I do feel that if you are around ambitious people and they are a
they feel the need to keep you around. M you'll become more ambitious.
Let me put it this way. I think you can make somebody more ambitious. Okay. I don't think you going to make somebody ambitious.
H So you're saying people are born
ambitious or maybe something has happened to them over the years. A lot of people become ambitious later on in life when they can completely
bankrupt at 30. Then they get something and they or
they have some major relationship issues and that makes them so some life event causes them to see people maintain their
slope.
Yeah. True. You also say that Indians are high on aspiration but low on trust.
Why do you say so? I don't think I've I've said it the way you're saying it, but
uh I think every human is aspirational because
nobody's happy with what they have. Actually, happiness comes from
absolutely wanting what you have. Okay. Uh and progress comes from
absolutely wanting what you don't have. Yeah. Okay. Uh but yeah
uh when you think about trust, trust is a very complex thing, right? Trust comes from
like if you think about trust, it's a more of a game theory problem where
you could argue that it should benefit everybody to show good
trustworthy behavior and then society becomes more trustworthy. Right? For example,
um if the cost of being not trustworthy was
very high in a country,
then lot of people would be trustworthy, right?
Uh for example, if the cost of breaking
rules is dramatically going to cost you, we behave well.
Yeah. Uh think about the teachers we had in school where we could escape not doing a
homework or not doing an assignment or where you could not. You saw the compliance
to be very different. Very very different. So often
good trustworthy behavior comes from that. Let me give an example.
Let's say a lot of people are not able to pay back their loans and there are two broad reasons. They do not have the
ability. They have lost a job. They have done thing and some people do not have the intent.
But what if we did something like that that all the people who have willfully
defaulted
we tell them you cannot take digatra you cannot do tatkal tickets.
Now imagine five friends are going to the airport and four people go to datra and you're like oh no I'll go from here.
Social embarrassment. What if
landlords do not rent a property to somebody who
has willfully defaulted on their credit scores. Mhm.
Which happens by the way in most developed world. Credit scores are checked for before renting an apartment.
What if people would not get married without checking credit scores?
That's a good framework to put. And why wouldn't you want to check?
What if it became normal? But why is it important for a country to
start trusting a lot to build a country? It cannot be prosperous without trusting. See when country cannot be
trusting then we all the transactions require too much of checking again and again. For example let's say if no
builder could cause a damage to a buyer otherwise they
would have severe punishments. M to buying property and land would become a trustworthy transaction versus
there is so much friction 90%
so economic prosperity but what if you knew
and why do you think it's it takes every every country goes
through and change and trust. For example, let's say uh look at the success of UPI,
right? Only when it can consistently be reliable
and prevent frauds and do everything, it'll be adopted by now close to 500 million Indians use it.
Why do you think we trust digital apps but not human beings as much? No, I think your app I don't think
that's the case. I think we trust that can be verified to be consistent. So
trust comes from four things. I often say this but I'll repeat it. Trust comes from the presence of four things. But
it's not you need to be having all four in place. If visibly any of the four things are absent, you cannot trust
something or someone. First is integrity. And integrity is not a
integity integrity institution integrity.
Second consistency
consistency. You can predict them like a clockwork. Yeah. Uh uh uh third is like competence. Do
they know? Right. Imagine you are trying to go for a uh paragliding
and this guy's like uh sir you are my first client
right you would not be interested in that. Uh and fourth is benevalence or
non-self-centered behavior. If you knew that somebody is only self-centered
you're like less likely to trust them. So it's not all four are needed but absence
let's say the paragliding person example uh the person has integrity consistency
self-centered competence question
right now let's say you are investing with somebody you see competence
you see uh consistency in their performance uh uh you see they are bare but they are
like integrity is sort of shady shady so trust doesn't come that way so
only when these four things are consistently done trust comes naturally
okay let me give you an example just a thought experiment when you look at countries like us people who are who
have built one sort of organization and they're known for certain thing they
less likely to be trusted in something else. So for example, if Apple who's
making phones, people trust them because they they've shown consistency and competence in phones. It's less likely
for them to start selling salt. People will question them. Not really. They would not question. In
fact, if you look at the history of US, they're exactly built that way. One company needs to do everything,
right? Today, do you think they do that? No, they don't need to because the markets are deep enough for them to not focus to
to be focused. So you think the conglomerate thing but okay so trust see concentration of trust
happens in low trust societies. In India it happens. So because you will trust like 20% 20
people 30 people contribute to 90% of all Bollywood revenue or entertainment revenue.
Uh and then you will see uh super apps happen in low trust countries. doesn't
happen in high trust countries. You do not see large conglomerates emerge in
low trust countries or whatever. But if you go back in past, US also has all of these three things in the past because
as a society found trust in the institutions, right? For example, if you have a bad
fall at a cafe, doesn't matter what the cafe brand is, the government will
protect you versus you thinking about your own protection because the institutions are
very built for large scale. Automatically trust comes in everything,
right? So what happens is for example if you go to LA every
restaurant has to publish the certificate of their grading from the municipality on the door
big sign ABCid
and we mandated this to be kept on the door.
Let me give you a different example. Yeah. Let's say
restaurantat online restaurants.
It's an aggregation of all online ratings and customers can now trust this sign
because it's truly aggregation real time with AI. to give you the rating before
you enter the restaurant. So let's say now we go to restaurants. Which restaurants will buy and which
will not buy? Any guesses? Of course the ones who have high ratings. Correct.
improve. But would you agree that in 2 years
average restaurant quality will go up? Yeah. That we experience.
It's as simple as that. But I was asking from a point of view of do you know any large company which has done multiple
things and have been trusted in across sectors in US. So many examples right like uh uh you
might think but for example Michelin is a guide for restaurant and also a tire company right so they are trusted in
both the things it is what normal is for example Costco is a company most people
buy their private label stuff right uh uh and they take the membership
and buy their pulses it's a retailer right so it's very common
okay uh uh but conglomerates
uh work in countries that are not dep right
for example say company country 30 40 trillion to just building cheese
company will build you a unicorn fair cheese but let's say if the country
is not deep and Amul doing protein this that
everything will make sense because you trust them
to get that category right. But if that was the case, we have not built many of the brands that have come
in the recent past. Right? So what you will see trust will start happening in multiple categories. Right? Now you've
seen celebrities who've done protein have doing well, very well actually and you would say
but that's not how trust works. Trust often works basis this for example let's say if I recommended a book right now
it'll be bought yeah they trust you trust so there is something that trust
comes in very unique ways but for example I give some kind of a workout routine you may not trust
although it's not that I will not know about it but you will say
simple so How do you trust like who are the trustworthy individuals and who are not? It's very simple. Uh people who are
trustworthy are trustworthy within their org also. It's not outside. It's very rare to find
somebody who's trusted outside when nobody in the team trust them. Trust starts in the building first.
Mhm. For example, let's say people ask outside key is Raj trusted
person but
that it's unlikely the trust outside will exist because this news spreads
very fast. Yeah. So any behavior that is non-rustworthy
in nature is content. We talked about gossip before. Best gossiper.
What type of person you've learned to never trust even if they're successful? Uh I mean I don't think uh it works that
way in a simple term. You can trust them for different things. But for example,
uh uh let's say when you're trying to trust in investing in somebody, right? Uh
you're looking for how forthcoming they are when they are
confronted with something. Let's say when you tell them
if they justify go around about versus saying that no, you're right. That's not true. But let me explain why I said that
and you buy that. So you you'll see very clearly
that uh people who can be trusted long-term. Other example is
uh let's say your team members people who are not
fast at giving you bad news but fast at giving you good news. Eventually you will always have to watch
your back with them. But their behavior must be a function of
how you react also. If you are terrible reactor to bad news
bad news true but if you say it's okay solve
but that time if you react like a hyper emotional person
you will never get bad news. So you feel
think about uh our relationship with parents like who are we going to give
bad news first or who are we not going to give bad news or or are we going to give bad news to
our parents based it's it's based on the trust or or
the reaction reaction they have given over the time. Mhm. M so you feel you can trust a person who
accepts and reacts in a better way. No, I think people would differ. No, trust. Trust. I told you the four
components cause trust. I'm just saying there are multiple traits that you feel. Okay. What is trust?
Your ability to be vulnerable around somebody or something.
That's trust. Do you think as a public figure you can
be vulnerable and yet be trusted? If you are vulnerable that is fine but
if you are not respected you can't be trusted as a public figure because ultimately people have to respect you also. Just likes are not enough.
Fame is not enough. There are many people who are famous for being cringe.
You don't respect them. You won't respect them. We we like watching clowns.
Doesn't mean that we'll respect them. Would you wear
t-shirt of somebody who's very cringe as a person? You might just once in a
while watch their real and laugh and oh my god, I can't believe they said that.
Respect is alo subjective. I'll talk about it. Okay. But I want to share something with
you because you said vulnerability. I was speaking to somebody who trains and who have trained multiple presidents in
US and one of the key insights he told me that they have in their training when they become president one of the first
things they been told that they're not allowed to say sorry. Yes.
So he was sharing in insight about Donald Trump that sometimes he knows that he's wrong but they're not allowed
to say sorry because that makes them look weak. Yes. And that will make more people distrust them, not trust them.
So then trust comes from being very powerful and not vulnerable. Just a good point. Uh it's about what is
the role? If your role is to be a protector,
it's different to be vulnerable. If your role is to be protecting my wealth, you can't say sorry.
But if your role uh is to let's say
uh generally lead as a manager and say that guys I'm sorry I should have handled
this feedback better. I should have solved this problem for you better. It creates trust. You wonder that for
example feedback Lena if you are not good at taking feedback it's going to be hard for people to
trust. What if you're unapproachable for feedback? will not grow. Only some figures require
you to maintain that stature. But do you think that the same people would not be
saying trust to their close people otherwise they will never get feedback?
How would they know what they are having their blind spots on? But you're right, the the respect has very interesting
connotations. For example, when it comes to leaders that we want to have blind faith behind. So you'll see never you'll
never see a godman ever say maybe they're very sure.
Exactly. That's what I was coming to. So on some figures we expecting them to not
have any doubt
because we like to follow people who have backbone not people who are right and wrong. M
do you think it works for celebrities, public figures as well? Yeah, of course it works for brands also. Some brands are luxury brands are
unlikely to say sorry for your experience. Your good will be shipped in 3 days. No.
Who should be arrogant and unapologetic about what they are and who should not
be? I think that's a generic statement, right? uh
people look up to people for different types of traits, right? If you study brand archetypes, there are 12 brand archetypes.
Approachable, lovable, warm, uh uh ruler, creator, innovator,
magician, there are multiple types. Everybody has a role and you have to fit that role, right? Uh
look at the movie actors, we have different archetypes, right? Not saying sorry types.
The warm, lovable, likable type, the intellectual type, the non-intellectual
type, uh energy jovial type. These are
all characters. They all exist and they all have different roles to play.
Who will have the highest status likely to have highest status in a country like India? What do you think? uh uh somebody
uh always status boils down to wealth or power
the best status obviously both h what would your brand archetype be if
you have to put it out in a word I don't know I I think people uh I think brand archetypes are not something that
you can craft you are that yeah what do you think how do people perceive you I don't know maybe I should do a survey
and find out how do people perceive. What's your guess? What's your guess? What do you think? I want to know it from you.
I don't know. You tell me.
You're you're very like a
random intellect and wise kind of persona that you give at least on
and sometimes I also feel that
you purposely show that you don't take yourself seriously. Mhm. That's like I don't know how to fit that
in into one thing but that's what you show. I actually don't take myself seriously. uh I think uh
that's what we can perceive and uh that's because nothing really matters right eventually you may do
everything in I don't know 50 100 years nobody will remember anything like you
see history of people like who achieved extraordinary stuff like uh I was talking to somebody about
uh the story of the founder of Bombay stock exchange I met some Bombay stock exchange employees they didn't even know about this person
they work in that institution. So forget about who else will care about
it. Yeah. So you don't take yourself seriously at all. I I don't think u I
think we should take what we do seriously for the time that we are being around over here and do it with a lot of
respect and dignity and a lot of integrity. But we to also accept that life is
absolutely fragile. uh and humans keep evolving and moving
on, right? And uh uh you should just be happy about what you did in the time
that you had the gift of life. Mhm. Versus constantly worry about your legacy, your
uh like long-term and all of that stuff. Uh and I'm not saying that you should not think about that your let's say
you're building a company would you should want for it to last hundreds of years.
But you also accept the mathematical order of that happening is close to zero.
Have you thought sorry you sorry go ahead. Have you thought that what if you fail?
I think the mathematical chance of that is high for every single individual.
What do you do to continuously get lucky for not being failure? is is is
something that you have to build uh through observing, pattern recognition,
so on and so forth, right? And often you don't see that in people because
uh uh they're not thinking about converting this into a long-term thing. For
example, let's say a company is in the first 5 years, let's say Tata Group, okay, in the first five years, we're not
thinking
centuries they had to solve a very different problem
sometimes of survival. Mhm. Right. Uh when you are raising a kid
when it's 1 2 you're not thinking about oh lawyer doctor engineer like it's hard
to although you wish for but you don't think about that you're like okay is the
baby sick or not sick has got vaccinated
not got vaccinated so on and so forth you're thinking about different things
but I think as you're building companies and you reach a certain age, you think about it to be more long-lasting in
nature. You don't think about taking shortcuts on many things. But have you thought ever,
okay, let me put this in a very podcasty way that
if someone was to write a book on you, I hope not.
And the book title is like about your failure. Okay, let's just put it this way. We're doing an experiment.
Correct. Correct. The book title is why I didn't make it. Perfect. What do you think would be the first
chapter? Did not evolve. Explain.
The world changed and I did not evolve to the change. I did not adapt. Did not
learn. Did not fix my mistakes. Did not demonstrate discipline.
Do you think you're not evolving at a pace that you should be evolving? Nobody is evolving at the pace the world is evolving at right now.
Nobody. The world is changing too rapidly, too quickly.
What gives you that this insight? Just look at everything that is happening around us. We often forget that
like smartphones don't exist before a very long period of time. Internet did not exist for a very long period of time. Now we have AI and AI is evolving
at a rate every two months that you cannot imagine. And the world is therefore evolving
around that change of behavior. social media uh all the evidence of mental
health, all the evidence of new types of uh behaviors that are coming on younger
people, it's evolving at a very different rate. We don't know how to
plan for it. If you had a teenager, what
are you asking them to study? How do you know? Yeah.
If you banned placements in MBA schools, MBA,
what if you and I build a company that assures placement? We'll probably make more money than MBA
schools. True 100%. So what I'm saying is that who knows?
Who knows? Nobody knows. Evolution is Yeah. changing evolving and it's
changing at a much faster rate. For example, our parents didn't have to learn all this thing and watch podcast and evolve so fast.
Yeah. Yeah. In fact, grandparents had to evolve much lesser
cuz the world's rate of change was manageable.
Do you think more people will feel with all this change and evolution
average number of people they'll get more successful or they'll fail more? I think the rate of failure and success
has been consistently in the world. Doesn't matter what the time was. M but average
wealth always grew, average prosperity always grew. The gap was always wide. By the way, we
we often say gap between wealthy and not wealthy. Did you ever imagine the gap between
kings and other people back in the day? The gap was multiple times more.
We often say that oh countries were richer before they were looted. No, only
the kings were richer. Rest of the people were not very rich.
So this is where you have to say what is a purpose of a government? Find a way to
let get everybody out and do well. Create prosperity for them. Create uh
opportunity for them. And that's what has to happen. H
because you're talking about government. It reminds me of another tweet that you did. All tweets about power and politics
result in more quote tweets than any other form of tweet. Fastest way to be
called stupid in life is to have an opinion about power or politics. Yeah.
Why? I observed this. Uh so I wrote that
because you will notice that people who talk a
lot about politics are usually powerless in life
and they feel the power by discussing politics a lot. I'm not saying that
politics is not discussed by a lot of people. I'm saying people who are obsessively discussing that
right especially if they're not journalists like journalists they are paid to discuss
WhatsApp group you will notice a very specific pattern that usually not very powerful people
that is true right uh and the reason of the quote tweet is saying that you make an opinion
about something people will want to bash you because like it's this identity
driven thing, right? Uh for example, if you questioned democracy
as a thought experiment
and you said that democracy should be different based on the average IQ of
society, just try to write that you might almost
get cancelled. M but
but let's say if I told you that hey we have to
hire CEOs of a company based on a voting system
in a company would you bet on this company as an investor never terrible idea
so that's how things work but when you put these opinions out there cuz when there's firm belief about
something, it causes reactions especially from people who are otherwise
not very powerful. Yeah, that's
you know I was another experiment. I was just reading actually let me give another experiment. Just think about this.
Just thought experiment. Yeah. Okay. Um let's say on Twitter uh
after everybody's name their average IQ is shown
and that is automatically derived through AI.
What happens to social media?
It actually becomes a better place. Honestly, I don't know. But I don't know. It'll be less profitable like way less
profitable. I don't know. I don't know. It's not that all people who are with high IQ are noble
but it'll be more entertaining for sure. I don't know. I I do believe it'll be a very interesting thought experiment.
Right. And therefore, one of the things that I think about is
thought experiments a lot. Second order thinking. Less than 1% of people can come up with
good answers to this question that I said. M you can try it in all your interviews.
We are your current team members. Tell them 10 things that is likely to
happen if this is made mandatory in Twitter. Average IQ. Average IQ. No IQ of every person is
shown next to their name. If that happens let's say kunal sha 80
raj 140 anashu and now what happens in
one year's time? Ask this question to your team members.
Less than 10% of people will have great answers. And it's nothing to do with
what their current role is, salary is, nothing to do with that.
Why do you think people won't have an answer? Good answers. People have answers. India answers.
Uh uh it is hard
to think second third order.
What if this and then what and then this and then what and very complex
you would to be good at understanding behavior dynamics for your for example right now you said it'll be entertaining
but I'll say why and you have to think and play in your head. Yeah,
it takes while you know people should who are listening that they should comment their answers. Maybe we'll get some interesting answers
or maybe we'll get similar answers similar answers but it's it's very hard it's very very hard. Do you think one
thing which will happen if this happens? Actually think about it. Uh when I was tweeting something now initially
when grock and perplexity became thing people would question
is this true is this what he's saying is correct or not and only when I saw in the first 20 30
times these AI tools said yes this person is saying something right this pattern is observed this is a proof
of this I saw people stop doing it on my social media some people are asking is
is this copied idea and I like it a lot that people do that
and I saw that you could see people say it's mock but it's a it's an interesting
instead of believing that this person is I know copying their ideas or thoughts
or whatever you just ask this question so I went and like took my tweets and say how many of
these are original how many are not original Yes, because I was not trying to validate myself. I was like, who else
thought about this?
But somebody has gone deep into it. For example, I was thinking about how do
masses get persuaded. Then I said and then discovered
Plateau or any of these guys who have written like books on this topic who have also written books on geometry, geography or human
and you're like oh wow like this guy had
and then you discover more such people who've done like 200 topics
authorative books like
barely Then you realize the power of distraction.
Now we are shallow about 500 topics. Second question
true. Do you think I'm still stuck on the IQ?
Do you think IQ in long run people will stop giving
importance to the to the IQ number? It's unlikely to happen because because there's a strong correlation. You will
see a strong correlation of IQ and wealth, IQ and um power. You will see
strong correlation in that. I'm not saying causation. IQ want to say guarantee you will get power or wealth.
But you will see that a very high percentage of people who are wealthy or
powerful have higher IQ. Agree? Right. So what you'll start
noticing is that you will start taking respect opinions
very differently. For example, if I asked an average person today in 2025,
do you trust Chad GPT more than 90% of your friends? They might say yes.
By 2030, very few friends will be smarter than Chad GPT.
So then how will trust work in that world? Because many of our relationships come from taking advice
from somebody, taking mentorship from somebody. Now I'm like bossain
gossip, relationships might change materially.
But then if you go with the rule of social media where someone who's relatable and is doing something
extraordinary who feels like he's one of you, you would want to celebrate that
person more. So people with lower IQ. So it's very interesting. Would you want
to be seen as a relatable person's fan whose IQ is shown as low? Answer is no.
No. But then you like to be a rebel and be like hey Then you would want to be saying just to
justify my life. Yeah. But then you will stop getting respected
because somewhere people will say like you
publicly I'm already less respected. Correct. What I'm saying is that if I don't tweet
then I can choose to be anonymous and do whatever I I'm doing. Right. But if I'm seen,
you don't want to be seen. But you want to be seen supporting an underdog and actually be associated with
an underdog who won. Perfect. What you will notice is that when you are doing that,
you may not get the support that you think you will get from people who are of respect.
See what what I'm trying to say is that one is what do I do? For example, it's not that people who have high IQ, high
success, high power are not watching cringe content and memes. They are watching it. They're enjoying it,
right? But sometimes like associating with that people wonder
why are you doing that? For example, when I post meme people like I'll get DMs,
you are such an inspirational figure and I'm like
that's what it is. But I think that's association problem.
[Laughter]
But I I was coming from the point that if somebody with low IQ proves over time
to be of high power, wealth and status regardless of having a low IQ, a lot of
people would want to 100%. So you will start seeing a pattern
IQ. Then you might discover
you might start seeing many other traits. So I agree with you, right? But it will still be detrimental but they
may not even get chance sometimes because this data became public. Yeah.
That's why I'm saying the thought experiment is interesting because would you give a chance to somebody?
True. For example, let's say sometimes you might discover the person who makes the most amount of wealth in the stock
market is actually not very high IQ. But now would you invest
once their IQ is revealed although they have proven track record
maybe you start doubting and therefore the thought experiment is interesting because
it creates some very second order effects. Yeah. Because if you actually look at data also, most of the athletes who win,
they have low IQ comparatively to a lot of high IQ. Yeah. Because their profession requires a very different thing. But you will
might discover by the way that people who are actually top athletes are actually very good at pattern recognition and discipline.
Agreed. Because you can't just rely on brute force to get to the top of the
game because sub game eventually chess
s you might break out by brute
but the top games are always mind games. Yeah. Have you noticed any pattern in
yourself? Mhm. which regardless of which company you're building or which age you are in
or which category you are operating in they keep occurring to you again. Yeah.
For example, I always look for efficient paths. I believe that there has to be a
very efficient lazy method to achieve something. I'm always seeking that. I'm
always trying to find is there a way to achieve this thing in the most energy efficient way. I
often look look for those patterns. Um I've seen a pattern of
constantly wanting to know why does something happen.
One pattern I observe is that I like to challenge the team on we doing
this this is going to be the outcome. M and I'm looking for somebody to prove me wrong
because then I can trust them with more judgment. Yeah. Nice. Um, for example, let's say you can
easily run a thing. Let's say you run a live contest 24
hours and you do this 10 times and two people are consistently able to
predict closest to the answer. You can trust them more. That's a good thing. I'll do it.
You should do it. Let me know what happens. I'll absolutely do it because they do something that is getting them
consistently right.
And you can do it 24 hours. We'll check it. Whoever gets you give
them some prize. Let's announce a 100 rupees prize for everybody who gets it every 24 hours. But you observe in 10
times who won the most times. M sometimes you might not get 10 times and you th 100 times who won the most times
and then boom you start seeing patterns. Yeah. Okay. One loop was open. Respect.
You said respect is primarily decided by power and power and money. Right?
Something something of that sort. What did you say? Yeah. Like is wealth respect. Respect is a humans have a
natural ranking systems in their head and we follow.
Yeah. People we respect or we like either are the two reasons we
follow. Respect may not have a large crowd. Love
has a much more larger crowd of funny is more like like love like
love has more following. Respect is lesser following because people who seek respect is a smaller cohort,
right? Because for for example, will you ever beat
people who are let's say putting funny content out there? It's going to be hard, very hard because people are
trying to escape from their life and enjoy for a few minutes.
So you to think that respect comes where you say okay this guy is seeing something and pattern and
they they have doing something winning something getting something done achieving something and you see the
pattern right uh you may not necessarily
love them just because you respect them right uh some people are loved not
respected some people are respected not loved Uh some people are loved and respected.
That is a golden category, right? Uh
and it's hard to get to that Yeah. with consistency. Respect usually is
when you see people great at long-term behaviors.
Respect, for example, I can make an ad to be liked.
I make an ad and I get respected. No, people will see me for many many many years
and then potentially build respect or they will have to see respect through
association. If they see somebody else they respect respect somebody they will
respect like respect. Why? Because people who are very
respected don't easily respect people. They are very selective in their
respect.
But how do you win respect then? By demonstrating by demonstrating consistency. If you ask
top cricketers how many people do you respect list?
If you ask an average person, give me a list of people you respect
because it's harder to get to that. Respect is a much harder game. Like is easier game.
No, you said if you ask if I heard it correctly. If you you said if you ask a cricketer top
top cricketer how many people in the planet the respect respect? Why would they respect lesser people
than an average person? Because the bar is different now.
for somebody to show that level of consistency and long-term behavior
because they are at certain level they will see respect somewhere else. See they would respect a lot of people they
would not admire a lot of people. So that's very interesting respect
range right? Uh I if an elite cricketer saw somebody come at the age of 14 and
hit a six m they'll admire
they won't respect respect.
They might see some early signs
but there are so many people who have come and disappeared. Even though if they're wealthy and they
end up becoming wealthy, people don't respect them because they've disappeared. Huh. So, so for example, if you if you make wealth through mediums that are not
respect generating, not be respected as much.
So back in the day you know I had tweeted something like most of the wealth was in India was built through
opium especially Bombay the trade malva trade or malwa trade cover and and opium
and all of them did extraordinary amount of philanthropic work to be respected. M
majority of the for example the the zoo the public hospitals all of
that are donated by opium dealers s school of art college this thing uh
sir JJ and others were very big in in opium trade and by the way it was not illegal that time so you can't currently
go and say no it's a legitimate business that time
but Because you have to find reputation, right? You would create many things.
M, right? Uh uh uh and and
building libraries, building hospitals, building public institutions, public
parks, doing philanthropic work was a way to earn respect.
So you will see that people who are uh u uh wealthy may not always be
respected. Yeah. They found ways to get respected and that's why they do certain things to be respected. What do you chase in life?
Freedom, money, power, respect, fame. I don't know. I I think I I'm
I think I chase knowledge is what I have found as a more reliable answer. all
these things I often question this that what drives me I think I like to understand things and implement things
and create things uh
like I'm very averse to fame like I often when people say okay can I take a selfie my immediate reaction is like no
please like don't like you met me just say hello to me something like I don't
want that and I I do that quite often and I feel bad because people are really excited to see you and want to take a
selfie with you but I'm like like can I say no I'm sorry uh and uh uh like what
I've seen a only good use of wealth I've seen is access because somebody who has to decide to
meet you has to see
for example for you like when you started uh uh we did the podcast. How many years ago?
Three and a half years ago. Three and a half years ago. Four maybe. Four. Now your ability to get meetings with
people has dramatically changed because a you have access, distribution,
fame, all of that which helps you. True. Very different. And it every new thing unlocks a new
thing. It is very powerful. Yeah.
So I think Capital in my case social capital.
So social capital capital some level say but for example they might want to meet
you. Oh, what if through this I might appear on this podcast
like some association benefit that they might seek from you with capital somebody who's trying to meet you is
like okay will you get access of something sometimes is knowledge but I've seen
that when you chase knowledge and nothing else people respect you more
100%. So what I have seen is that whenever I have reached out to somebody and say like let's say I meet somebody from big
from the media industry and I say I only want to meet you to understand how movies work this work or whatever and
let's say when they invite me to a party and I say no they respect you more because you're not
trying to take advantage of this person to get access to that world
right for example we've sponsored IPL for many years I've gone for no
party I've gone for No things. I've not even gone for matches, right? Because
you'll be very clear. Okay. What do you want? But would I want to meet an athlete in a personal setting to
ask them questions about what makes something special? Absolutely. Yes.
But you have no fascination towards being seen with them so that you are
being seen more. Yeah. Or get access to that part of their life which may not be appealing to
me. M I definitely want access to their brain. Glamour doesn't excite you. Yeah, it doesn't because I think it's
very short-lived. It's one of those things which is depreciating asset.
I like appreciating assets. Interesting way to look at things. Yeah. Long-term. Glamour is short-term.
I like long-term things. If I learn something from an elite cricketer or elite athlete, elite music musician,
elite something, it'll stay with me forever. It'll shape me. It will mold me. It will
create a new dimension in me. Can I share something? Mhm.
I've often questioned myself for being like the way you are. Mhm.
I similarly because of nature of the work, I get invited to XYZ parties to
the glamour world and I 90% of the time say no. Sometimes I go there because just I want to see what's in that world.
M I want to understand and meet certain people who I can only get access through that event and I yet want to be so low
key that I just repel to just no pictures, no nothing. I don't want to be seen anywhere and I always used to feel
that maybe it's some kind of complex inside me which is making me not seen in
the public. I don't know. I would always ask questions. I go there for actually the information
and knowledge and connecting with people. Ultimately people seek what they want and they get it
right for example I have requested multiple people who give awards or
whatever I don't want to be given I'm very happy to help you with anything in life but don't nominate me or give me
anything because it doesn't help when you're building a
business you have to prove you can scale you can build profit you can give return to your shareholders you can help your
employees become wealthy, all of that stuff. Yeah.
Yeah. So, I I've seen that
if you're doing well, no people of respect know you. True. Number
you meet some people, they don't know you because you won some award. They know your numbers.
True. So true. So this is a respect respect game
recognizes game. M they are not recognizing you because you some won some award. No chance.
Yeah. Vanity metric they don't give a  about. Yeah. They they actually look at it in
negative manner. That this person is chasing vanity so
maybe the substance and value will be lesser. Yeah. What's the biggest misunderstanding
about you? I I often think about this and ask
people about it. For example, a lot of people who come to work at CRED, they
think I'm some intimidating like Twitter personality, but I'm like working and deeply involved at work. So, they're
like, "Okay, they thought I'm like some guy who's not in office and like some
uh uh guy who's I don't know goes on speaker and speaks to the team, big
boss." Uh uh that's one thing I've seen consistently. The second is that
because I don't use uh I I come from a generation where emojis is not natural to me anywhere. So
people think that I'm rude or arrogant uh because I don't and I speak in
lesser words. Yeah. Chris, so people who are efficient in communication are always perceived to be
rude. But you're not rude. You're just I I I am I'm just the way I am. Right.
Uh and and uh but do you think you're rude? I don't think so because see rude people
who are rude are trying to hurt somebody and they are trying to evoke a reaction from somebody.
I am less likely to notice either of the two.
I like to say that it should help you.
Yeah. If you spend 10 minutes with me, she'll help you versus all this words like rude mean.
It doesn't matter. So now that you know that people misunderstand this thing about you, does it bother you? Do you ever want to
change it or you like it, I'm the way I am? I think anything that would impact
anything long-term, I would want to change it. I haven't thought this impact because there are enough people who tell
you it's a nice guy. M I don't think if people at work felt the
same thing after joining then it will become the image that I have. Yeah.
But they'll say I think people build perceptions basis
the version of they they see out there. For example, when I post
like I I'll tell you a funny story. I I once was at a cafe and this person walked up to me and said, "Oh, please
can I take a selfie with you? Uh, you are my favorite memer." This person had no clue.
I do something else in life really. And I was personally very happy about it
because I was like an achievement that I did not ever see coming. And it's like, oh, my sister is
going to be so jealous that I got a chance to uh uh meet you and and I'm
like, this is interesting, right? So I think often that like people build a
perception about you and sometimes you like people have a different perception about you somewhere else altogether. Like this person doesn't think about
anything else except memes. I post memes.
That's incredible. hilarious. But I I loved it. I loved it. I was like, that is so cool.
See, now that when you go in rooms, you're respected and people admire you for any number of things. What's a part
of you which you which you still want to hide? Ah, I think uh I don't think I have a
part in me left. For example, I used to be very I I I did not think till I
became I would say decently successful in terms of money. I ever talked about that I was
poor or had these challenges or these things because I used to be afraid that
I will be treated with sympathy
and then and I didn't want anybody to give me an opportunity basis sympathy
because it's not merit- driven then it's a little bit of a charity that somebody is doing for you.
So I think I that's the only part I used to hide consciously that not talk about
not having money like I literally remember that I had a for the entire
college but I had one shoe that was torn and I must have repaired it hundreds of
times. uh I wouldn't want to make that the story that somebody will give me an
opportunity but now when I reflect back it it is something that I'm okay to talk
about earlier I would be like no you you have to pretend that you were not poor
and what changed just accepting that it's just what made me who I am
but that time I think I was right in not sharing that earlier Because
I don't think anybody should seek sympathy. I think as as a culture
like we had too many sad songs and too many self-sympathizing stuff. I don't
think respect comes to people who are constantly seeking sympathy.
You might like them, you might help them. You can't respect them.
So true. It's such a
a lot of people use sympathy as a strategy and then later realized that the only thing it got them was likes,
not the respect. Yeah. Or help but not respect. Okay, we're going to go through all the
tweets now. Oh my god. And you have to explain these things to me. But some of these things you have
already done. But still, so you said success isn't a club you
enter through inheritance. What do you mean by this?
I think it's earned, right? Success is an earned thing. It's not what you get. Just just because let's say think about
nepotism. You can get your first movie through influence. You can't get your 10th movie
through influence. It might give you an entry ticket.
Let's say being rich might get you to a good college. Doesn't make you successful in life.
So what I mean by that is that it it is not coming through inheritance. It is
something that is earned. Then what do you mean by success here? Because a lot of people actually measure
success by money. Yeah. Power that you have. Inheritance gives you both of them.
It gives you both. For example, but let's say if you do not have built an ability to create wealth, you'll most
likely lose wealth. So most wealth disappears in third fourth generation
in most families. Yeah. Because of this.
So it's unless you build an ability to create wealth
inherit. I think you'll see people who have not people have inherited money and not
built their own. They're not respected as much. People see it.
But in extreme large families, you don't even know. You'll find out their employees will know sir to office video game.
It's true. And the word will come out. Yeah. So no amount of money can actually get
you Mhm. respect for success. Unless you are seen growing
and compounding and sacrificing and taking risks.
Fair. Okay. Here's another one. Those who are greedy to understand the world get more
money. Those who are greed greedy to understand the world get more money in life than
those who are greedy to get more money. Yeah. Uh I think being greedy to money is
saying that I want to be this guy but I don't want to find the process of how do I get there right but people who are
greedy to understand the world figure out and money just comes as an outcome of that or success comes as an outcome
right for example let's say I I'm an aspiring podcaster I want to I want to
be like Raj over here and like oh my god I'm going to beat all the numbers he has, but I'm no interest in the process
of how he picks his guests and how he gets his content, what does he do, all
of that. And I'm not trying to understand what makes things viral. I'm not trying to understand any of that.
And I'm only greedy for the end outcome. I'm less likely to get it. But people
are greedy to understand the world. It starts like that. Sorry. Don't you think it starts with
just not necessarily because uh sometimes you just discover money as an
accidental outcome of some of the things that you're pursuing. Did you expect you to make so much revenue when you started? No.
Did you do this for money? No, never. You're making a lot of money that as an
outcome of what you are still doing for your passion. I still don't believe this is making
this much money. Correct. But the thing is that if you thought
that's fine, but unless they understanding how things
work. Business is done to make money. There's no question about that. But you do not make a lot of money if you don't
understand things. So you have to be greedy of understanding things.
Being greedy for money doesn't create understanding. the the core loop which compounds is that for example oh do you
want to get a six-pack yeah everybody will raise hand [Music] but that's not the thing like just the
discipline the understanding the choices is what creates the outcome no
I agree with you but I think this for most people the starting point is I just
want to make money I don't care about anything else because I just want to get out of the financial rut of my family
that's That's that is good starting point. It's not what will get you
anything. It'll get you some money in the beginning. Mushkiller.
If your understanding is not growing to make money, you need
the real currency is understanding and skills. Money is just a score.
Yeah. It's like
best athletes. Yeah. You know, just a random fact because you
talked about sixacks. I was reading yesterday. I don't know how true that stat is. Uh in America, you're 4x more
likely to become a millionaire than to have a six-pack. Yeah. I think it's going to become 10 to 12x now because the wealth is constantly
growing. The percent of people who are having six pack is consistently remain the same.
So we you you said processdriven understanding right? Hm. Do you feel with the way AI
is becoming more and more prevalent in our lives,
we are less likely to be process driven and more likely to be outcomed driven and that's actually ruining a part of
our brain because now I don't care about developing a muscle or developing an
interest of process. I only care about the final outcome. Um, yes and no. Right. Um
if you do not understand how something works, your brain will not fully develop.
Yeah. So that's a true statement. But should you do something the hard way?
The answer is no. Right? For example, we all took vehicles
to come to this place. One could argue that
I would have taken few hours to come over here. So the question is that we find efficient paths to achieve the
outcome right but doesn't mean that we do not know if you have to walk we can walk or not but if you learn to not walk and only
vehicle is the only way you'll get there then you are in a problem. How do you do that in AI case?
No. So let's take an example of this. If you were not able to write a single paragraph
without AI's help, then you're in a big trouble because you'll not even know if
AI is in a good job which will most likely to happen for yeah I'm saying that will happen for
most people. So what I'm saying is that dependency will increase and people's brain will going to atrophy. So actually
I tweeted about this that the the atrophy that we are going to go through and the dependency on all decision that
we take on right see one is auditing a decision one is taking help to take decisions very different
if you take AI's help to audit your decisions audit your judgment audit your
strategy good idea what should I do
the moment you do that the brain will atrophy at a different level
which is what I'm worried about in general. Uh and
see human brain is energy efficient. We don't want to spend our brain on
anything. Yeah. So anything that makes our brain energy efficient, we'll keep going down that
path. But it's like a little bit like muscle. Eventually we make the muscle it become
more efficient. Yeah. Right? Uh and therefore building that muscle is
an important trait and unless we become good at building that muscle which is otherwise avoidable
most people avoid it. That changes the equation materially. So
you have to think about life where hey uh I am going to like push for that
atrophy to not happen. I'm going to leverage this to become actually even more curious.
Take more ambitious calls, more decisions, more curiosity.
Mhm. Then it's very powerful. But that's true for any tool in life.
Yeah. It's true for any tool in life.
So people have become extraordinarily better. Yeah. Using internet and people are still
watching fun content on that. The country's average usage now is touching 35GB
almost per month per capita without a Wi-Fi usage. By the way, this is just data usage on cellular 35GB.
So you wonder 35GB average per capita per user in India probably
the highest in the world. When was the last time you got offended? I don't get offended. I I was last time
I don't think I I have no memory of getting offended because I I my filter is of information.
I don't I don't have the filter of offended and not offended.
I I usually I'm either curious or not curious, interested, not interested.
That I can give you very clear answers about. But offended, not offended is not the filter.
Do you have any insecurity? Uh insecurity of becoming uh not be able to understand something,
not able to figure out something is a huge it's a huge uh thing that I it's not an insecurity, it's a worry I have.
It keeps me up that do I get it? But physically or personally, do you
have anything? No. Emotionally, no insecurity. I'm I'm sure when I grew up, I had the
same insecurities as everybody else did, but eventually realized that these are all less important things. Have you ever gone in a room full of
people and felt inferior? Not anymore. For example, I didn't know
how to speak proper English till I was like 23, 24. I could not that I can
claim that I could speak well now also but the thing is that that time I would
worry that I would just be a listener for example I remember distinctly that my biggest trigger of joining MBA was I
would read economic times right and I would feel like oh my god
it's like alien it's a little bit like you want to see under the ocean you don't know how to swim like it's a little bit of that right but now I don't
think uh but I think I gone to solve these barriers versus
likeomic
you can you can do that but I have never done that I'm like and then you just went deeper and deeper
to solve that up insecure so you worked on your on the things that bothered you
yeah and I think once you understand ignored or ignored
ignored something that bothered tells you
um no I usually address it. Okay. I usually address it. It's a good signal
to know where to work on. It's a good indicator. It's like engine
light. So something bother is a good place. Yeah. I don't ignore it usually.
uh and try to understand also why it bothers
me. sometimes discover it's not worth bothering about
I do this I I write notes on like let's say weekly or 20 days make
whenever I get angry or bothered I write down I get bothered or angry and then whenever I have time
you should write down why did I get bothered so that's what and then whenever I have time at the end of the weekend or somewhere or I'm in a long flight I open
those notes and be like okay is time I got angry why did I get angry where is this coming If you if you go more into
why emotions will disappear. The word why is a very powerful thing to go into logic versus emotions.
So I would say if more people used why they would be less emotional. You said
something about India on this point. What was that? On again you tweeted that it's hard to
imagine for rationality to be at forefront in a society where emotions are celebrated and lack of it is
resented. Yeah. So for example, robot
or somebody who's controlling their emotions. So we can't expect rationality to be at
forefront over there. Is that one of the reasons which is holding us to be very prosperous?
I don't think so. Prosperity is a very complex topic. Right? For example, I would say uh one gender is working and
second gender is not contributing to workforce. No country has become rich by one gender working. It's a much bigger
factor than emotions and non-emotions. Right? So complex topic but rationality and curiosity, reason, productivity is
important. For example, you will never see country getting prosperous without them really valuing time. You will not
see a one country that will become prosperous without valuing time. You will never see
country prosperous. You talk about it a lot. No, but it's evidence. It's evidence, right? So uh uh
if I found a country that became prosperous by being dumb chill I'm very interested in that
and I'm not even saying that we should chase that metric I don't know if it's the right metric to chase okay we should become rich I don't know
who who knows is the right metric for example we say oh we should try to make
people healthy and make them live longer but what if they are not wanting to live
who decides that metric right in the past people used to live a good life, die at a good age. Now we
keep extending the age by doing medical interventions. Is that a good thing? I don't know.
So I I what what I don't like to do is build these firm views. I'm just saying if you want prosperity,
if you want six pack, should we want six pack? I don't know. Should we want prosperity? I don't know.
Should we want success? I don't know. Mhm. What I know, if you want this, you have to do this.
But when you ask people, they all say they all want everything. Yeah. But they they don't want to do anything about it.
That's the change we have to do. And it's okay to not want some of these things. I know many people who are like very clear
which is great. Which is great. Problem is when the ambition that comes out of M doesn't say an example, right? We get
super offended when somebody talks about working more hours. Huh? Why?
Yeah. Why get offended by somebody telling you to work harder?
Why do you think people get offended when they talk about? Because when people get offended is
usually coming from a place where they know there's some truth to it. Offense doesn't come when there is absence of
truth. For example,
uh if we remark through somebody that this don't
even feel is 1% true, we're less likely to get a reaction out of that.
If the person is saying that the country is not going to get prosperous. For example, let's talk about work from home for us. I mean the the whole work life
balance situation right now, right?
days
first.
So then are we being selective? I am very happy if you take the western
things and we take all of it then selectively 5 days a week but we'll not say
True. People don't go to some distant
relative's wedding. People don't take 15 days break for their
brother or sister's wedding. So we we tend to
get confused through selective data.
And then there's some truth to it. So we get offended. Yeah. For example, if you ask most
Indians, are we the best culture in the world? Most people will say yes. If you
ask them, how many other cultures have you visited and studied?
Indian culture is not great. That's why truth seeeking removes the
fence. Do you think in general are we becoming
more offensive? We becoming sensitive because we have this concept. I I've said this multiple
times that when you build reputation before substance, you will get offended very fast, right? And younger people
have that unique problem that they are designed to get offended because of
their their world that they create around them. This 2,000 people like liking world.
Yeah. And but if you say
you said one of the best things which I think you've said it to me was
most of the young people are worried about the reputation they don't have. Mhm. Beautiful. Like so true.
Mhm. Why did you say that? And what do you think? What did you observe?
No, because the same thing. you know, they are like worried about how they look, what their image is, their brand,
their all of that stuff. And and I'm like, nobody cares about these things
eventually. And like you're worried about these things. And I think that repetition prevents them from learning more things because they're worried
about their image too much. All right? For example, I see them I see the
generation seeking the least amount of help from people because it's I'll look small if I
ask help. So the growth is stopped. They're
finding it much more comfortable to ask charg. But some help is better to be asked by a
person. Yeah. But you don't see them them seeking help. Oh, I have to be like maintain my aura.
So they are sure failure in private because they don't want to be seen.
Yeah. Asking for help. Mhm. Why is this happening? Because
social media
people you're not in touch with they don't know you. They know your image about you. They have a brand perception about you. They
don't know you. Yeah. So I want to maintain that image
was the thing. Yeah. But but that's what I'm saying. Those are the exact people who find it hard to ask for help. What I'm saying is
that it's so much more now. [Music]
How do we break out of this repetition? Let's say for you'll rarely see success
in people who have stopped caring about shame. Shameless important ingredient.
I believe you reached out for the podcast for the first time to me. You didn't care. you were just shameless enough to ping.
Yeah. I said yes. I didn't know whatever. For example, I remember like I discovered so
much later Instagram. I didn't care about all these things. Like I was like, okay, sure, do
it. Like uh uh and
what I discovered is that people who reached out were shameless, got the benefit of that.
Now I'll be more selective about who reaches out and who I'll say yes to or not say yes to. But earlier you were
shameless enough to reach out. You got that. You said I got
the highest views for you initially and that was great. What if you had not reached out thinking
that yeah what if he says no? I'm sure people have said no to you in the beginning. How many people said no to
you in the beginning? First 200 guest nobody came. 200 first
random. Perfect. So, but
most people don't get to 200
and and shamelessness. Shame. See, that's what I'm saying. For most people, there's a huge shame. Rejection
is a huge shame. Being left on red is huge shame for people. Why do people
talk about it? Red zone. Don't double text.
You ask any young person, double texting is almost a sin for them.
But don't maybe you'll be surprised. Ask the younger
team members. Scene zone, right? Like the scene zone, red zone, double texting. Ask the younger people in your team. H
like will you double text? Yeah. Or how do you perceive somebody who double text?
How do they perceive if you asked? You should check like desperate.
Yeah, it's it's a real Who makes these rules though? Insecurities. Human insecurities. All
rules. All of these come from human insecurities. See, I believe you need to be shameless.
That is so true. Everybody needs to be shameless in order to win. But what% of people threshold is
No, shameless is a binary term. Like what we're talking about is I would
never even think that this is shameful. Reaching out to somebody on an email and or Instagram.
Not for everyone. Not for everyone. Okay. I'm going to do a thought experiment with you. A lot of team
members are outside. experiment. Um,
all of them have to act like a a beggar on the street and whoever gets 100
rupees wins a big prize. How many people will agree to this experiment?
Number two, how many people will be able to pull this off?
Number three, how would they think about themselves?
Some people you know shameless you know you can already identify which four five people will just go and get the 100
rupees also exactly like I know you would go I would go like
very like zero there's nothing in it it's just exactly but it's not good story to tell
yeah I've done it once in college as a as a bet
yeah so shame is directly It's preventing success for sure.
True. And if you won't Yeah. Actually, if you won't be shameless, you won't get the opportunity that you want. You won't
get the girl that you want. You won't get anything. Anything any level of success that you're actually looking out for? Anything.
What's the level of shame which is accepted or not? Is there some shame? There's no such thing
because there has to be some thin line, right? like not be see means saying oh you become creepy is
a very different thing. Yeah. Would you be offended if somebody reaches out to you 20 times? No absolutely not. Why would I be
offended by that? Like you're just like what the Like you'll block that person like irritate you
because you didn't reply once or you didn't reply twice. But most people have no craft in
reaching out to you, right? They don't establish the value that they provide to you. They send the
same text. Like for example, a lot of people are guess if you see most people's DMs of uh uh thing, hi, hello,
hello, hey, hey, hello. Like nobody's saying anything more.
So that's the and how do you get over let's say a lot of people would reach out to a lot of people. That's saying we
to establish value. Why would somebody give time attention? Most people underestimate that.
This also goes back to the school years, right? We not taught to date. We're not taught to approach. We're not taught to
sell ourselves. We're not taught to actually go out and go get people. Same thing. No, it's the same opportunities.
The whole thing not like what is this whole like this thing that uh uh like
Zakir comedian talks about Sakla? What is that? M is this not is there don't go out on
I can't ask how I got to maintain my how can somebody break out of this
by accepting that there's success outside of this
because I'm trying to go to my life and thinking about
but you'll see many people who come from business families are not naturally less see look at all the people who are
misbehaving at the airport are usually from business families shame Shame
because shame like I'm thinking shame or shamelessness. Yeah.
I've always you probably got more shame in Bombay than where you are originally from. Oh yeah 100%.
Like oh you can't behave this way. 100%. Yeah.
So the only way it is just mentally you have to tell yourself that okay
there's success on the other side. Mhm. And that's it. There's no other way for me to do it. Yeah. But you have to be crafty about
it. You can't just like oh my message. Then you will get blocked.
Yeah. For example, I say let's talk about dating scenario. What does this person want in their life? For example,
let's say I'm reaching out to an investor. email pitch
if you do not take any effort to find out what kind of stuff this person is likely to react to
homework zero but everything else so I'll just do
same thing in dating if you do not know what this person is expecting
randomly you'll text so you will just say hello hi hello hello hi doesn't
And you usually know what homework to do. There's no usually people who are interested to
really get it right, they will do the homework. They'll figure out or find out.
True. That's the way to think about it. Yeah. You said s let this be the last
question. You said actually second last. Okay. You said sat long, alpha male if you want to put it.
What's alpha male according to you? No, sorry. I don't think Sat Land is alpha model. I think I think I think uh
someone like Zak does a fantastic job to actually make this into a humorous thing to this that it's almost a problematic
slash uh insecure version of somebody to protect to pretend to be this person,
right? and and and uh he's also kind of giving the other side to explain the nuance of what really it means
internally to feel that way. But I think uh the whole thing around alpha whatever
I I mean I I remember asking this question to Karan Johar once at one of the events I hosted is
hey why are these movies doing big success and he's like kunal this has
happened every decade this whole angry young man of different type has come back again and again in different forms
it's existed from the beginning and I was like yeah that makes sense it's just that we feel this every now and then
because it's almost It's a cycle that repeats right so I think uh anything that is
different for a society's norm gets attention then again it becomes normal
then we'll again have somebody who's loving and like this loving personality will again
win so it'll be a cycle it's the same thing humans are very predictable that way fashions have
exactly the same cycles these things of expecting personal ity is to be in cycle same thing continues.
But what's your definition of alpha male? I don't think there is I I think to me these are uh uh uh more biology
definitions uh versus uh a human definitions uh in in biology is very
simple that somebody who has more success to get resources or mating success is known to be alpha
right but human life doesn't work that way. We are not like some animals living in some
jungle that we have to create this particular thing. So uh uh leadership is
natural. For example, it's very simple, right? Um leadership to me is
followership, right? If somebody creates followership,
people would follow them. Yeah. Do something because they said something.
That's leadership. It's alpha, beta, gamma, theta. I don't understand all stuff. Leadership,
followership is very simple. And followship doesn't mean I follow somebody for because they're humor. That's not followership. Follow
how influential you are. Influential to make somebody make sacrifices,
not watch a real just because you send them. That's not influence.
All attempts to differentiate end up becoming attempts to belong.
Yeah, that's a pattern I observed is that look at all the Gen Z
who decide to not post anything. They only have highlights sometimes and no
posts. Like that's their thing. Yeah, they did that to differentiate with
older people. But now all Genz's do it.
But somebody must have started the trend. Now that person must be feeling significant in their head. Yeah. So I think all attempts to
differentiate becomes an attempt to belong eventually.
Okay, last again. Sorry, but resourceful people create more wealth than
insightful people. Mhm. You need to explain me this. What do you mean by resourceful people? What do you
mean by insightful people? And why one over other? So insightful people tend to know why
things work the way they work. They have good efficient methods to understand the reasons behind stuff.
But resourceful people are actually the the people who so if you'll see many people in small towns who make a lot of
wealth are not very insightful people. They're just very good at making money. They're very resourceful. What I mean by
resourceful is like if you tell them sir problem
then the resourceful person comes to help not an insightful person. Yeah.
uh or some people who say
figure out. Think about your own team members also. You will see that the insightful people are not the one you
rely on. The resourceful people you rely on. True. So there is a difference between the
two. Like if you are not the type that and and we all of us have we all of us
know this type of people. Yeah. Who will we call if you got stuck with police or legal issues or some
challenge or some topic or some help some person you know
the right person and they are not most insightful people they just get stuff done
they don't think in obstacles they think in outcomes is there a way to become resourceful
h I think first is removing your shame reluctance resistance
and just being there and just happening to the world. See
there is two types of people. People who happen to the world and people uh and
the second type is where world happens to them. If you are the first type, you are
resourceful. You need to be valuable to the world.
No, you need to happen to the world like you change the world. You shape the world. You make things happen. You get
stuff done. You don't worry about obstacles. You you your existence
creates change. Are you that in even the smallest room?
Yeah. And then just get and people do well in life
and most people stuff happens to them. Yeah. They just live.
Yeah. They they are perpetual somewhat of a sufferer of the world.
True. Love it. Thank you so much. It was pleasure having you again and my
pleasure. I'll have you again whenever next time you're ready. It's always good to talk to you.
How are you doing? Good man. I was just telling you that going to young people's office is like going to a rap here. Break the case.
Day one. It works. It works. It works for us. I
know. I know. I'll reach out to you because people need to appreciate what the hell has happened. Uh and and
business folks need to treat this into a very serious business podcast versus like some motivational stuff. It's like
boss. It's hardcore. It's not some
there is lot of serious juice which goes on. There is no way you going to get this kind of numbers by just like being
a child doing stuff. There's some serious athlete stuff going on over here. Thank you so much.
number
conversation can change someone's life. I'll see you next time. Until then, keep figuring out
[Music]